Many adults and children experience prolonged symptoms after severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. These ongoing, relapsing, or new symptoms as well as other detrimental health effects are referred to as post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC) or ‘long COVID’ when present 4 or more weeks after the acute phase of SARS-CoV-2 infection. While it has become clear that PASC can present with a myriad of symptoms affecting different organ systems, why this occurs is still largely unknown. Understanding the mechanisms underlying PASC is crucial for the development of appropriate preventive and treatment strategies.Immune dysregulation has been established as a key pathogenic feature of acute COVID-19 and also plays a role in the pathogenesis of systemic and tissue-specific PASC manifestations. However, the causal mechanisms of immune dysfunction in PASC need to be defined. The mechanisms of immune dysregulation likely vary depending on the PASC clinical phenotype, the severity of the initial COVID-19 infection, as well as the specific tissues involved. Well-designed studies can help elucidate the role of immune mechanisms in PASC.The NIH-funded Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery (RECOVER) Initiative, which was launched in February 2021, involves more than 100 researchers across the United States who are carrying out studies on PASC (also commonly referred to as ‘long COVID’), either via new studies or by leveraging pre-pandemic long-term cohort studies, implementing the same set of protocols. A central part of RECOVER is the generation of a large SARS-CoV-2 recovery cohort where researchers will collect data from individuals across the lifespan using electronic health records and patient-completed surveys. A subset of participants will also provide biospecimens including blood, nasal swabs, saliva, lymph node aspirants, etc. (https://recovercovid.org/protocols). The ultimate goal is to use the data and resource products to develop preventive and therapeutic treatments in light of the incalculable public health impact of COVID-19 and PASC.The Mechanistic Pathways Committee within the RECOVER consortium focuses on three mechanistic priority areas – immunopathology, viral persistence, and tissue damage – as the potential salient mechanisms underlying various clinical PASC phenotypes. This perspective article (alongside the companion papers on viral persistence [REF] and PASC tissue damage [REF]) aims to provide a brief overview of current knowledge and raise important questions and hypotheses in these three areas to identify gaps in understanding the mechanisms of disease severity and sequelae of COVID-19, generate new thoughts and ideas, that will help design studies and direct research efforts.In this article, multiple researchers with wide-ranging expertise in adult and pediatric medicine came together to review the role of the innate and adaptive immune systems in the pathogenesis of acute SARS-CoV-2 infection and PASC. The focus on immune mechanisms here emphasizes the dysregulation of immune processes that are intertwined with the viral persistence and tissue-specific pathologies [discussed in companion reviews] that will likely be needed to address the range of different PASC subtypes which have been defined recently by RECOVER investigators [REF]. Potential hypotheses for PASC-related immune dysregulation are also discussed with suggestions for studies that can help answer these vital questions. Even though there are likely key differences between immune mechanisms during acute COVID-19 and those involved in PASC, the acute immunopathology of COVID-19 can serve as a starting point for examining candidate pathways involved in the immunopathology of PASC. We will therefore outline the established knowledge on acute COVID-19 as well as the limited data on the immunopathology of chronic PASC to highlight important new avenues for research on PASC immunopathology.The severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (SARS) caused by the SARS-CoV-2 infection is thought to be driven by an exuberant and dysregulated innate immune response, that is coupled with poor adaptive immune responses [REF]. The sensing of initial infection triggers a type I interferon response, and the magnitude of this early response can suppress infection effectively in a majority of subjects. However, when type I responses are delayed [REF], or impaired due to autoimmune neutralizing responses [REF], severe disease has been found to occur. During acute infection, the viral RNA, dsRNA replication intermediates are recognized by pattern recognition receptors, TLR3, TLR7, RIG-I, and MDA5, and in order to replicate the virus antagonizes these responses through the activity of a number of virally encoded genes, including no fewer than 13 genes: Nsps 1, 3, 12, 13, 14, 15, ORFs 3a, 3b, 6, 8, 9b, M, and S [REF]. Subsequent dysregulation of proinflammatory cytokines including IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) along with elevated chemokines ensues in severe disease [REF]. With severe disease, many patients suffer from prolonged hospitalizations associated with prolonged elevated cytokines. At present the extent to which elevated cytokines are characteristic of PASC is still somewhat unclear. The presence of viral RNA in plasma has been described as an early factor that anticipates PASC sequelae [REF]. The persistence of virus in sites that are not routinely sampled or in immunological sanctuary sites such as the gastrointestinal tract, olfactory system, or the brain, may cause local immune activation, and inflammation that drive symptoms of PASC [REF], though the extent to which this persistence or associated tissue injury causes PASC, and if it is mechanistically tied to symptoms is unclear; this topic is discussed in more detail in the companion articles on viral persistence [REF] and tissue injury [REF].Several studies have suggested that excessive neutrophil activation is a hallmark of severe acute COVID-19. The degree of neutrophil activation as early as the first week following the diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection served as an important predictor of whether the disease trajectory would take a more severe course [REF]. Therapeutic approaches to modulate neutrophil activation and defined neutrophil subpopulations have suggested that neutrophil activation is not just a biomarker of severe disease but instead plays a key pathogenic role in the progression to severe COVID-19 [REF]. Underlying mechanisms could include the amplification of inflammatory and pro-thrombotic loops via interactions with other immune cells that result in the formation of cytokine storms [REF].Formation of NETs (neutrophil extracellular traps) emerged as another key mechanism by which neutrophils could promote severe COVID-19. NETs are extracellular chromatin filaments which are released by neutrophils and are typically coated with cytosolic proteins such as calprotectin and granular proteins such as myeloperoxidase or neutrophil elastase [REF]. They are thought to serve a host defense function by trapping pathogens, but several studies have documented proinflammatory and thrombogenic roles of NETs in a wide range of acute and chronic diseases [REF]. Such maladaptive roles of NET formation have also been observed in several respiratory diseases such as acute lung injury, COPD, or asthma where NETs are both cytotoxic to the lung epithelium and endothelium while concomitantly amplifying inflammatory cascades, activating platelets, and inducing autoimmunity [REF]. Several studies examined autopsies of patients with severe COVID-19 and found excessive formation of NETs in the lung tissue [REF]. Additionally, blood samples from patients with severe COVID-19 showed significantly higher circulating NETs [REF], as well as the greater propensity of circulating neutrophils from severe COVID-19 patients to form NETs ex vivo [REF]. As with overall neutrophil activation, detection of NETs can provide important prognostic information for risk stratifying patients [REF].Although NETs are elevated in acute COVID-19 and the levels correlate with disease severity [REF], their complexity (net-like structures composed of DNA–histone complexes and proteins released by activated neutrophils) makes it challenging to directly infer underlying mechanisms to explain the observed pathobiology. Multiple studies have quantified NETs with distinct assays that vary in terms of specificity, sensitivity, and objectivity. Each assay analyzes specific components such as DNA release in supernatants of stimulated leucocytes, DNA-complexed with myeloperoxidase or neutrophil elastase, presence of citrullinated histones by fluorescence microscopy or flow cytometric detection of NET components. Optimization of assays for quantification of NETs will further improve mechanistic studies investigating which components of NETs are driving the pathobiology. It is unclear which aspects of NETs lead certain patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 to develop a more severe phenotype.While these above-mentioned studies have established the critical role of excessive neutrophil activation and NET formation in severe acute COVID-19, little is known about the potential role of neutrophils and NETs on long COVID or PASC. Studies in the subacute period following the acute SARS-CoV-2 infection suggest that persistence of neutrophil activation is a key determinant of disease severity [REF]. Neutrophil responses also appear to remain abnormal for several months after the acute SARS-CoV-2 infection has subsided [REF]. However, this raises the intriguing question of how short-lived neutrophils (24–72 hr) can ‘remember’ an acute SARS-CoV-2 infection that resolved weeks or months earlier. NETs are typically formed in the acute infection period but if the propensity to form NETs is increased in PASC, then how would such persistent programming occur? One possibility is that long-lived parenchymal, vascular, and immune cells in the tissue have been reprogrammed by the preceding SARS-CoV-2 infection for example by epigenetic shifts, and instruct incoming neutrophils (which themselves can be short-lived cells) to take on pro-activation and NET-forming signatures. Another possibility would be that the bone marrow environment has been reprogrammed by the preceding SARS-CoV-2 infection which in