Immune mechanisms underlying COVID-19 pathology and post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC)Abstract: With a global tally of more than 500 million cases of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infections to date, there are growing concerns about the post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC), also known as long COVID. Recent studies suggest that exaggerated immune responses are key determinants of the severity and outcomes of the initial SARS-CoV-2 infection as well as subsequent PASC. The complexity of the innate and adaptive immune responses in the acute and post-acute period requires in-depth mechanistic analyses to identify specific molecular signals as well as specific immune cell populations which promote PASC pathogenesis. In this review, we examine the current literature on mechanisms of immune dysregulation in severe COVID-19 and the limited emerging data on the immunopathology of PASC. While the acute and post-acute phases may share some parallel mechanisms of immunopathology, it is likely that PASC immunopathology is quite distinct and heterogeneous, thus requiring large-scale longitudinal analyses in patients with and without PASC after an acute SARS-CoV-2 infection. By outlining the knowledge gaps in the immunopathology of PASC, we hope to provide avenues for novel research directions that will ultimately lead to precision therapies which restore healthy immune function in PASC patients.  1. Introduction Many adults and children experience prolonged symptoms after severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. These ongoing, relapsing, or new symptoms as well as other detrimental health effects are referred to as post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC) or ‘long COVID’ when present 4 or more weeks after the acute phase of SARS-CoV-2 infection. While it has become clear that PASC can present with a myriad of symptoms affecting different organ systems, why this occurs is still largely unknown. Understanding the mechanisms underlying PASC is crucial for the development of appropriate preventive and treatment strategies.Immune dysregulation has been established as a key pathogenic feature of acute COVID-19 and also plays a role in the pathogenesis of systemic and tissue-specific PASC manifestations. However, the causal mechanisms of immune dysfunction in PASC need to be defined. The mechanisms of immune dysregulation likely vary depending on the PASC clinical phenotype, the severity of the initial COVID-19 infection, as well as the specific tissues involved. Well-designed studies can help elucidate the role of immune mechanisms in PASC.The NIH-funded Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery (RECOVER) Initiative, which was launched in February 2021, involves more than 100 researchers across the United States who are carrying out studies on PASC (also commonly referred to as ‘long COVID’), either via new studies or by leveraging pre-pandemic long-term cohort studies, implementing the same set of protocols. A central part of RECOVER is the generation of a large SARS-CoV-2 recovery cohort where researchers will collect data from individuals across the lifespan using electronic health records and patient-completed surveys. A subset of participants will also provide biospecimens including blood, nasal swabs, saliva, lymph node aspirants, etc. (https://recovercovid.org/protocols). The ultimate goal is to use the data and resource products to develop preventive and therapeutic treatments in light of the incalculable public health impact of COVID-19 and PASC.The Mechanistic Pathways Committee within the RECOVER consortium focuses on three mechanistic priority areas – immunopathology, viral persistence, and tissue damage – as the potential salient mechanisms underlying various clinical PASC phenotypes. This perspective article (alongside the companion papers on viral persistence [REF] and PASC tissue damage [REF]) aims to provide a brief overview of current knowledge and raise important questions and hypotheses in these three areas to identify gaps in understanding the mechanisms of disease severity and sequelae of COVID-19, generate new thoughts and ideas, that will help design studies and direct research efforts.In this article, multiple researchers with wide-ranging expertise in adult and pediatric medicine came together to review the role of the innate and adaptive immune systems in the pathogenesis of acute SARS-CoV-2 infection and PASC. The focus on immune mechanisms here emphasizes the dysregulation of immune processes that are intertwined with the viral persistence and tissue-specific pathologies [discussed in companion reviews] that will likely be needed to address the range of different PASC subtypes which have been defined recently by RECOVER investigators [REF]. Potential hypotheses for PASC-related immune dysregulation are also discussed with suggestions for studies that can help answer these vital questions. Even though there are likely key differences between immune mechanisms during acute COVID-19 and those involved in PASC, the acute immunopathology of COVID-19 can serve as a starting point for examining candidate pathways involved in the immunopathology of PASC. We will therefore outline the established knowledge on acute COVID-19 as well as the limited data on the immunopathology of chronic PASC to highlight important new avenues for research on PASC immunopathology.The severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (SARS) caused by the SARS-CoV-2 infection is thought to be driven by an exuberant and dysregulated innate immune response, that is coupled with poor adaptive immune responses [REF]. The sensing of initial infection triggers a type I interferon response, and the magnitude of this early response can suppress infection effectively in a majority of subjects. However, when type I responses are delayed [REF], or impaired due to autoimmune neutralizing responses [REF], severe disease has been found to occur. During acute infection, the viral RNA, dsRNA replication intermediates are recognized by pattern recognition receptors, TLR3, TLR7, RIG-I, and MDA5, and in order to replicate the virus antagonizes these responses through the activity of a number of virally encoded genes, including no fewer than 13 genes: Nsps 1, 3, 12, 13, 14, 15, ORFs 3a, 3b, 6, 8, 9b, M, and S [REF]. Subsequent dysregulation of proinflammatory cytokines including IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) along with elevated chemokines ensues in severe disease [REF]. With severe disease, many patients suffer from prolonged hospitalizations associated with prolonged elevated cytokines. At present the extent to which elevated cytokines are characteristic of PASC is still somewhat unclear. The presence of viral RNA in plasma has been described as an early factor that