The adenosinergic machinery in cancer: In-tandem insights from basic mechanisms to therapyAbstract: Extracellular adenosine (eADO) signaling has emerged as an increasingly important regulator of immune responses, including tumor immunity. eADO is mainly produced from extracellular ATP (eATP) hydrolysis. eATP is rapidly accumulated in the extracellular space following cell death or cellular stress triggered by hypoxia, nutrient starvation, or inflammation. eATP plays a pro-inflammatory role by binding and activating the P2 purinergic receptors (P2X and P2Y), while eADO has been reported in many studies to mediate immunosuppression by activating the P1 purinergic receptors (A1, A2A, A2B, and A3) in diverse immune cells. Consequently, the hydrolysis of eATP to eADO alters the immunosurveillance in the tumor microenvironment (TME) not only by reducing eATP levels but also by enhancing adenosine receptor signaling. The effects of both P1 and P2 purinergic receptors are not restricted to immune cells. Here we review the most up-to-date understanding of the tumor adenosinergic system in all cell types, including immune cells, tumor cells, and stromal cells in TME. The potential novel directions of future adenosinergic therapies in immuno-oncology will be discussed.  1. Introduction Adenosine (ADO) is a metabolic intermediate involved in the ATP catabolism pathway and the synthesis of some important signaling molecules, such as cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) [REF]. Extracellular nucleotides, including purines and pyrimidines, have been unequivocally reported as signaling molecules involved in several systems such as blood pressure regulation, platelet activation, cardiovascular system remodeling, neurotransmission, anti-cell death, promotion of cell growth, and immunoregulation [REF]. Under physiological conditions, both ATP and ADO are usually at low levels in the extracellular space [REF]. Several cell conditions and stresses like cell membrane damage, ischemia, inflammation, and cancer could trigger the massive release of endogenous ATP in controlled manners such as regulated vesicular exocytosis and ion channel/transporter-mediated release but also in a direct cell-lytic way through cell destruction [REF]. Thus, the accumulation of extracellular ATP (eATP) actually functions as a danger sign or nominated Danger-Associated Molecular Pattern (DAMP) to attract phagocytic cells to immigrate to the inflammatory sites and caution the whole immune system about the presence of pathogen-associated molecules and cell/tissue damage [REF]. The activation of inflammation achieved by eATP is notably mediated through P2 purinergic receptors, including ligand-gated receptors (P2X) and metabotropic nucleotide-selective receptors (P2Y) [REF]. Most family members of P2Y receptors promote oncogenic processes directly in tumor cells, while P2Y receptors in immune cells regulate these processes indirectly [REF]. Recent studies suggested that eATP activates P2X purinoceptor 7 (P2X7) expressed on macrophages, dendritic cells (DCs), granulocytes, T cells, and B cells to promote the formation of the NLRP3 inflammasome and the release of inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β and IL-18 to enhance anti-tumor immunity [REF]. However, eATP is rapidly hydrolyzed to extracellular adenosine (eADO) in the tumor microenvironment (TME) since solid tumors normally have higher levels of ectonucleotidases than non-tumor tissues [REF].eADO metabolic pathways: production, degradation, and signaling.eADO is primarily derived from the sequential hydrolysis of eATP mediated by several established ectonucleotidases [REF]. In a canonical route, eATP is hydrolyzed to extracellular ADP and AMP sequentially by CD39, which is known as ectonucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 1, and AMP is finally hydrolyzed to eADO by CD73, which is known as 5′-nucleotidase [REF]. However, the fate of eAMP is not limited to producing eADO; eAMP can also be phosphorylated sequentially to eATP by secreted or membrane-associated adenylate kinase (ecto-AK) and nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDPK) [REF].The non-classical eADO production pathway is mediated by CD38, which is known as NAD+ ectohydrolase, and CD203a, which is known as ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase [REF]. Extracellular nicotinamide dinucleotide (NAD) released via gap junction protein connexin 43 (Cx43) regulation can be hydrolyzed to nicotinamide and ADP-ribose (ADPR) by CD38 [REF]. Then CD203a consumes the ADPR to generate inorganic pyrophosphate and AMP, which are hydrolyzed by CD73 to eADO as mentioned above [REF]. In addition to CD73, prostatic acid phosphatase [REF] and tissue-non-specific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP) were reported to hydrolyze eAMP to eADO [REF].Analogous to eATP, in the extracellular space, the half-life of eADO is very short. The eADO molecule can be catalyzed directly into inosine by adenosine deaminase (ADA) and then into hypoxanthine by purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) on the cell surface [REF]. eADO could also be transported into cells via concentrative nucleoside transporters (CNT1/2) or equilibrative nucleoside transporters (ENT1/2) [REF]. Inside cells, adenosine also has several metabolic pathways. The fundamental route is that intracellular ADO is phosphorylated by cytosolic adenylate kinase (ADK) to AMP, followed by conversion to ATP [REF]. Intracellular ADO could also be converted by cytosolic ADA (cADA) into inosine or by S-adenosyl-homocysteine hydrolase (SAHH) into S-adenosyl-homocysteine (SAH) involved in the methionine cycle [REF]. In conclusion, the eATP–CD39–CD73 pathway is the fundamental factor determining the concentration of eADO, but alternative ecto-enzymes also regulate metabolism, counteracting ATP-regenerating regulation.Although the half-life of eADO is short, the concentration of eADO could remain high in TME. Cancer cell death due to rapid growth or chemotherapy contributes to ATP release and then eADO accumulation in the extracellular space [REF]. In addition to cancer cells, Treg cell deaths also provide ATP and CD39/CD73 to supply eADO production for immunosuppression in TME [REF]. Other than immune cells, cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) in TME were reported to highly express CD73 induced by A2B receptor activation to sustain a high level of eADO concentration in colorectal cancer [REF]. Under physiological conditions, ADO plays a role in balancing the immune system’s activation and overreaction. However, in TME, all cell types are also regulated by adenosine signaling and involved in eADO production, which ultimately builds up the role of eADO as a tumor cell growth supporter.