Are dietary intake and nutritional status of specific polyunsaturated fatty acids correlated with sarcopenia outcomes in community-dwelling older adults with sarcopenia? – Exploratory results from ENHANceAbstract: To explore the relationship between dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) intake, nutritional PUFAs status and sarcopenia outcomes in sarcopenic older adults.The Exercise and Nutrition for Healthy AgeiNg (ENHANce) is an ongoing 5-armed triple blinded randomized controlled trial, in sarcopenic older adults (> 65y) aiming to assess the effect of combined anabolic interventions (protein, omega-3 supplement and exercise) on physical performance in these adults, compared to single/placebo interventions. Baseline data were used for a secondary, exploratory, cross-sectional analysis. Dietary PUFAs intake was assessed with 4-day food records, status with RBC membrane fatty acids profiles. Spearman’s rho(ρ) correlation coefficients were calculated to explore associations of PUFAs intake and status with sarcopenia-defining parameters (muscle strength, mass and physical performance), physical activity (step count) and quality of life (SF-36, SarQoL).In total, 29 subjects (9♂/20♀, mean age 76.3 ± 5.4y) were included. Total omega-3 intake of participants (1.99 ± 0.99 g/d) was below the recommended intake (♂:2.8–5.6 g/d; ♀:2.2–4.4 g/d). Intake and status of PUFAs were not correlated. Regarding correlations with outcomes, α-linolenic acid status was inversely associated with appendicular lean mass (aLM) (ρ:-0.439; p = 0.017), whereas docosahexaenoic acid status was positively associated with aLM (ρ:0.388; p = 0.038). Some omega-3 PUFAs intake and status markers were positively associated with step count, SF-36 and SarQoL scores, whereas gamma-linolenic acid status was inversely associated with SF-36 physical component summary score (ρ = -0.426; p = 0.024).Although intake of omega-3 and omega-6 was low, the present exploratory study generated new hypotheses for potential correlations of PUFAs intake and status with sarcopenia outcomes in older adults with sarcopenia.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12877-023-04007-9.  1. Introduction Diet plays an important role in the development and treatment of sarcopenia, the age-related loss of muscle mass and function [REF]. Primary sarcopenia is age-driven and is a growing concern in the ageing population. It can seriously affect the daily life of an older adult, e.g., by limiting the ability to lift heavy objects like groceries or through difficulties to climb the stairs or to walk [REF]. Sarcopenia affects up to 29% of community-dwelling older adults and up to 33% of nursing home residents [REF]. Malnutrition and low protein intake contribute to sarcopenia onset or progression [REF], whereas nutritional supplementation (alone or combined with exercise) is currently the recommended treatment strategy for sarcopenia [REF]. Besides protein intake, the intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) is also suggested to influence muscle physiology and sarcopenia progression [REF]. Dietary fat intake is a major determinant of muscle structure and function. Fatty acids can act as an energy source for the muscle, but are also incorporated in various structures of the skeletal muscle containing phospholipid membranes (e.g., sarcolemma or mitochondria), thus optimizing the muscle’s structure and function [REF]. In general, omega-3 PUFAs are suggested to have beneficial effects on the muscle, whereas omega-6 PUFAs might have negative effects on the muscle through their pro-inflammatory properties [REF]. Therefore, a higher omega-3 to omega-6 PUFAs dietary intake ratio is considered beneficial for musculoskeletal health [REF], as well as other health domains like cardiovascular health [REF]. In this context, a high omega-3 PUFAs intake is gaining increasing attention as a potential treatment for sarcopenia [REF]. Increasing intake of omega-3 PUFAs might counteract or prevent sarcopenia through some of its properties that are potentially beneficial for the muscle (e.g., improving muscle protein synthesis through its anti-inflammatory properties [REF], reducing anabolic resistance [REF] and reducing insulin resistance [REF]).Detailed data on usual dietary PUFAs intake in well-defined sarcopenic older adults are lacking. For this purpose, food records are a useful tool to measure dietary intake but carry an inherent risk of bias due to recall problems or socially desirable responses [REF]. Moreover, this might be a measure reflecting only short-term intake and not how this intake interferes with nutritional status. An adequate intake should ideally lead to an optimal nutritional status. Thus, it might be interesting to not only assess intake, but also status. Therefore, an objective biomarker for PUFAs status, such as the fatty acids composition of the red blood cell (RBC) membrane, is useful [REF], as this represents the nutritional PUFAs status based on the intake over the past month or two [REF]. This longer-term marker of PUFAs status has been reported in several populations, e.g. children [REF], postmenopausal women [REF] or men with prostate cancer [REF] but not yet in sarcopenic older adults. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to assess the dietary intake of PUFAs – through food records – and PUFAs status – through RBC membrane fatty acids composition – in a sample of well-defined sarcopenic older adults according to the recent European Working Group on Sarcopenia in Older People (EWGSOP2) criteria. As the first study to do so in this population, we also aimed to determine the correlation between intake and status of PUFAs. Furthermore, the present study intended to explore associations between dietary intake and nutritional status of PUFAs and individual sarcopenia-defining parameters (muscle strength, muscle mass and physical performance) as well as physical activity and quality of life (QoL). We hypothesized that intake of omega-3 PUFAs is low in sarcopenic older adults and that intake is well correlated with status. Moreover, we presumed that higher intake of omega-3 is associated with improved muscle strength and mass, as well as higher QoL scores and more physical activity.