The laboratory findings were normal, including routine blood tests, urine tests, biochemical markers and LDH value. So the radical left orchidectomy was performed and the microscopic examination showed a plasmacytic infiltration with mature plasma cell and some plasmablasts; in the immunohistochemical assay, the tumor cells were diffusely and strongly positive for CD138 and lambda chains but negative for kappa chains and CD20. The pathological report concluded the diagnosis of plasmocytoma with clear surgical margins of the tumor. After this diagnosis, immunoelectrophoresis showed no evidence for hyperproteinemia or paraproteinemia. Whole body bone scan was negative and a bone marrow biopsy revealed less than 5% of polyclonal plasma cells. No Bence Jones or other M components were detected in the urine. Therefore, multiple myeloma was excluded by nuclear medicine, laboratory and histology studies. The therapeutic decision for this patient was the monitoring without any chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Sixteen months after surgery, the patient presented a subcutaneous nodule at right iliac fossa, approximately 4cm in size. The aspiration cytology of the skin lesion showed a multiple dystrophic plasma cells, and cutaneous biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of plasmocytoma. The serological examination showed an increase of the levels of free light lambda chains 66.25mg/l, and in immunoelectrophoresis we had a hypergammaglobunemia IgA at 15,3g/l. However bone marrow aspiration revealed normal patterns of cell distribution, with absence of hypercalcemia, renal insufficiency and anemia. The patient was started on chemotherapy by thalidomide 100mg/day with dexamethasone. Two months later he complained an irregular mass occupying the left side of abdomen; thoraco-abdominal CT scan showed two other localizations: mediastinal at 70x30mm and retroperitoneal 90x60mm. The histological examination showed similar morphology to the testicular tumor. Hence, the histological diagnosis of recurrent plasmacytoma was made. Skeletal surveys did not show any pathological changes. There was no evidence of anemia, hypercalcemia or renal insufficiency. The second bone marrow biopsy was normal. Following this evolution and poor response the patient was retreated by polychemotherapy VTD (bortezomib 1,3 mg/m 2, thalidomide100mg/j, dexamethasone 20 mg/m 2). On follow up, he was asymptomatic but the retroperitoneal mass still presented after 2 cycles of chemotherapy, and he developed another skin lesion at 4cm in his back. Electrophoresis of proteins found a peak gamma globulin 49.5 g/l with increasing of light chain lambda 285mg/l, and bone marrow biopsy was still normal. The patient was treated at this time by CTD (cyclophosphamide, thalidomide and dexamethasone). Evaluation after three cycles showed a good response, and the CT scan confirmed the disappearance of all masses with normalization of electrophoresis of protein. Because of the frequent recurrence and possibility of transformation into MM, the patient is still on follow up at long term. 
There is no contact cervical bleeding. She is G10P9018 with 9 normal deliveries and one first trimester spontaneous abortion. The last child is 24 years old. She used to breastfeed for 18 months. Our patient has essential high blood pressure diagnosed nine years ago and treated with indapamide without visceral complications. She underwent two eye surgeries for cataract. Her blood group is A rhesus positive, she has never received blood products. She has no known allergy and consumes neither alcohol nor tobacco. She has three siblings who are apparently well as their mother. Her father died after a road traffic accident. She has no family history of cancer. On systemic enquiry we found a foul smelling vaginal discharge, no pelvic pain, no cough, no chest pain, no weight loss, no anorexia and no vomiting. Her general condition was good and the blood Pressure was 140/88 millimeters of mercury. The weight was 116 kilogrammes and the height 1.64 meter (body mass index of 43.13 kilogrammes / meter square). The respiratory rate was 18 cycles per minute, the temperature 37.3° Celsius. Cardiac, pulmonary and breast examination were normal. Abdomen circumference was 125 centimeters. Inspection under vaginal speculum revealed a necrotic and hemorrhagic mass of seven centimeters of diameter protruding from the cervix. Digital vaginal examination was not done to avoid contact bleeding. Digital exploration of the rectum revealed no abnormalities. Varicosities were found on both legs. The following work up was done: chest radiography revealed a heart of increased size but no pulmonary abnormality; Electrocardiogram revealed ventricular extra-systoles; ultrasonography and CT Scan of the abdomen and the pelvis revealed a mass limited to the uterine cervix without others abnormalities. The full blood count, liver and function tests and hemostasis work up were normal. Hepatitis B and Human Immunodeficiency Viruses test were negative. Fasting blood sugar level was normal. The working diagnosis was a uterine leiomyosarcoma at stage II of the FIGO (International Federation of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) staging system. A total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was carried out under general anesthesia. The findings were: normal size uterus containing a seven centimeters mass prolapsed through the cervix; uterine serosa invaded by the tumor; macroscopically normal adnexae. The pelvis was free of adhesions. The post operative course was complicated by infection of the abdominal wall. The abscess was drained and secondary closure of the wound was done 22 days after surgery and the patient sent for adjuvant radiotherapy. The Macroscopy showed bulky and necrotic poorly circumcised mass of the corpus uterus. The Histopathology analysis with hematoxylin and eosin stain showed a neoplasm composed of admixture of malignant epithelial and mesenchymal elements. The epithelial element was non glandular mostly undifferentiated and squamous carcinoma. The mesenchymal elements were homologous, consisting of leiomyosarcoma. Features were consistent with a Mixed Malignant Müllerian Tumor (MMMTs) also called Carcinosarcoma of the corpus uteri with pathological stage PT3. 
There was no prior medical admission, no history of surgery and no significant medication or recreational drug use. He is currently a grade ten scholar. There was no known COVID-19 case contact, however recent travel to Kwa-Zulu Natal two weeks prior was noted (Table 1). Clinical findings On clinical examination the patient was ill looking with a blood pressure of 103/44 mmHg, heart rate of 123 beats per minute and a temperature of 39.5°C. He was restless with no evidence of cognitive dysfunction. A generalized maculopapular rash was observed over the torso, upper back, limbs and palmar surface of the hands. The rash was non-tender, with erythematous desquamating lesions over the eyelids and bilateral conjunctivitis. The abdominal and respiratory examinations were normal with no jaundice, or lymphadenopathy. His cardiovascular examination revealed normal heart sounds with no added sounds, a sinus tachycardia, a normal volume pulse and warm, well perfused peripheries. He had no meningism and there was no arthritis. Diagnostic assessment Diagnostic methods Prior to arrival to CHBAH the patient had received three days of ceftriaxone and intravenous (IV) paracetamol with no clinical improvement. Blood investigations showed a rising C-reactive protein (CRP), procalcitonin (PCT), white cell count (WCC), ferritin, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and D-dimers (Table 2). Blood and urine cultures remained negative. The lumbar puncture was normal (including viral panel) with a normal chest radiograph and abdominal sonar. The first echocardiogram (ECHO) performed revealed a structurally normal heart with normal systolic function. Three nasopharyngeal swabs sent for SARS-CoV-2 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were negative. Diagnosis and differentials An initial wide differential diagnosis of infections was considered: viral infections such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) seroconversion, acute infection with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), herpes simplex virus (HSV) or cytomegalovirus (CMV); and bacterial infections caused by Group A streptococci, Neisseria meningitidis, other gram negative bacteria, rickettsia, leptospirosis or malaria. Non-infectious differential diagnoses were also considered: Kawasaki like disease (KD) as well as adult onset Still's disease (AOSD) were considered in view of the rash, sore throat, elevated ferritin, CRP and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) in association with neutrophilia. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) was considered on account of fever, rash and low complement (C3, C4) levels. An elevated temperature, rising CRP, PCT, LDH, D-Dimer and ferritin levels with deranged liver function tests (LFT), suggested a diagnosis of MIS-C. Therapeutic intervention On admission, the patient was tachycardic with a mean arterial pressure of 64mmHg, with no clinical or biochemical indicators of end organ hypoperfusion. Intravenous fluid boluses of crystalloid were administered with no significant response in haemodynamic parameters. Fluid boluses were ceased and urine output and serum lactate levels were monitored as markers of tissue hypoperfusion. Inotropes and vasopressors were not initiated as part of initial management. Doxycycline was added as empiric cover for rickettsial disease and ceftriaxone was continued on day two. Hydrocortisone was commenced on admission but discontinued on day three due to concern for infection. A transient resolution of the fever coincided with steroid initiation, and a subsequent elevation in temperature was noted when the steroids were interrupted. On day four of admission, in light of an audible gallop rhythm, persistently low mean arterial pressures and newly elevated cardiac troponin-T levels, a repeat ECHO was performed, revealing an ejection fraction (EF) of 10% with global hypokinesia, four chamber dilation, moderate functional tricuspid and mitral regurgitation with a sliver of pericardial effusion. Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) was started at a total dose of 120g (2g/kg) over 72 hours in conjunction with a dobutamine infusion and gentle diuresis to counter fluid overload. An IV methylprednisolone pulse of 500mg daily for three days was initiated with the IVIG on day five of admission. Serological testing for SARS-CoV-2 was performed at the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) and confirmed the presence of immunoglobulin (IgG) antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 trimeric spike protein with in-house enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) testing. A bone marrow aspirate and trephine (BMAT) revealed increased macrophage activity, but did not meet criteria for macrophage activation syndrome (MAS). Doxycycline and ceftriaxone were discontinued after four and seven days, respectively. Colchicine was added to cover for possible associated myopericarditis. Defervescence was noted on day six, accompanied by a downward trend in inflammatory markers, LDH and ferritin. Aspirin (300mg daily) and a therapeutic dose of enoxaparin (60mg twice daily) were added in view of thrombotic risk. The patient improved clinically with no further temperature spikes and repeat ECHO revealed an improved EF of 45% on day seven. Inotropic support was weaned off on day seven. Prednisone 30mg daily was initiated on day eight after completion of methylprednisolone pulse. The patient was monitored for a further two days, and showed clinical improvement, with no further temperature spikes and/ or hypotensive episodes. There was almost complete resolution of the initial rash. His WCC, CRP, PCT, LDH, D-dimers and ferritin were all on a downward trend and the LFT had normalized. The patient was discharged on day 12 on prednisone 20mg daily, aspirin 100mg daily, and colchicine 0,5mg twice daily (Table 1). Follow up and outcomes Mr. LN was reviewed 2 weeks later in the rheumatology outpatient clinic and was noted to have recovered fully with no residual symptoms. On examination there was complete resolution of the rash, with only few areas of residual hyperpigmentation. He had no tachycardia or signs of heart failure. A repeat ECHO showed an improvement in EF to 57%, without a pericardial effusion. The prednisone was weaned to 10mg daily and tapered down over the next four weeks. The treatment was well tolerated with no side effects noted. The patient returned to school and will be reviewed in the coming months. Informed consent Informed consent was obtained from the patient to use historical and clinical information as well as images avoiding identifiable features. 
Two weeks before, she had a tympanoplasty on the right ear for chronic suppurative otitis media without any immediate post-procedure complications. Her past medical history revealed a left ear tympanoplasty in 2011. She is HIV positive, acquired from her mother, and she has been on a combination of zidovudine, lamivudine and nevirapine since the age of 5 years. Her last CD4 cell count was 198cell/µL. Her mother died of HIV/AIDS when she was about 4 years old leaving her alone with her busy father. This has made her vulnerable to sexual abuses and she has had about eight reported episodes of rape since the age of 12 years. As a result, she was put on oral contraceptives (OCPs) since the age 13 years and was switched to injectable contraceptive Depo-Provera 4 months ago. She denied any history of alcohol intake, cigarette smoking or using illicit drugs. There was no family history of strokes, sudden deaths or clotting disorders. Examination after convulsion revealed an afebrile and anxious patient with a regular pulse rate of 127 beats/minute, a respiratory rate of 28/minute and a blood pressure of 131/43 mmHg. She had no lymphadenopathy and there were no bleeding or discharge from both ears. She had nuchal rigidity but without any neurological deficits. Examination findings of the abdomen, cardiovascular and respiratory systems were unremarkable. The patient’s initial investigations revealed normal full blood count, renal and liver function tests. Her random blood glucose was 4.9mmol/L and she had negative antinuclear antibody test results. Cerebrovascular fluid examination revealed a slightly turbid fluid with 6 white cells/mm 3 and 75 red blood cells/mm 3. A computed tomography of the brain with contrast showed diffuse meningeal enhancement, white matter oedema of the left brain hemisphere and a filling defect at the confluence of the transverse cerebral veins suggestive of thrombosis of the sagittal vein. The patient was admitted for anticonvulsants and anticoagulation on the wards. One day after admission she had about 10 episodes of sided convulsions, with residual right sided hemiparesis. The power of all the muscle groups in the right upper and lower limbs was grade 2/5. A Magnetic Resonance venography established superior sagittal and left transverse sinuses thrombosis. Furthermore, there were venous infarction with haemorrhagic component and oedema in the left frontal, temporal, occipital and parietal lobes. In addition to continuation of anticoagulation, anticonvulsants were optimized to control convulsions. There was a reduction of seizure episodes over the subsequent five days and the patient’s neurological deficit slowly normalized inthe next three weeks. She was then discharged home with mild hemiparesis and her subsequent outpatient visits showed no neurologic deterioration. Case report 2 A 44-year old female presented with a constant, throbbing and worsening headache over the past three days. The headache was generalized in nature, associated vomiting, photophobia, dizziness and diplopia. There was no history convulsion, limb weakness or parasthesia. She denied any history of trauma, fever or any loss of consciousness. Her past medical history was significant of HIV disease for the past 10 years. She was on Zidovudine, Lamivudine and Nevirapine treatment, and her last CD4 count was 293 cell/µl two months ago. She did not smoke cigarettes and had never used contraceptive pills. There was no family history of strokes, sudden deaths or clotting disorders. On examination, the patient was teary, in obvious discomfort, afebrile and with normal vital signs. Her Glasgow coma scale was GCS 15/15 with normal pupils and extra-ocular muscle movement. There were signs of meningism without any neurological deficits. Examinations of other systems were unremarkable and she had normal baseline blood tests. Lumbar puncture had an opening pressure of 23 cm H2O with a closing pressure of 10 cmH2O and normal laboratory cerebrospinal fluid results. The patient was admitted for observation in the ward and discharged three days later when her CSF culture results were negative. Two days after discharge, she was readmitted with worsening headache, photophobia and diplopia. On examination she had normal vital signs, neck stiffness and bilateral lateral rectus muscle weakness. A repeat lumbar puncture showed opening and closing pressures of 30cm and 15cm of H 2 O respectively. The headache improved after lumbar puncture, and her cerebrospinal fluid microscopy and culture results were once more negative. A non-contrast computed tomography showed ill-defined sulci and hyper-density along the sagittal, right transverse and sigmoid sinuses. With intravenous contrast, filling defects were noted in the above sinuses. There were no obvious haemorrhages, infarcts or mass effect noted. We made a diagnosis of thrombosis of the superior sagittal, right transverse and left sigmoid sinuses. The patient was started on low molecular weight heparin and subsequently continued on oral warfarin. Few days later, she had five episodes of generalised seizures without any residual neurological deficits. Fundoscopy revealed papilloedema that subsequently improved with intravenous Manitol. Similarly, her seizures were controlled by phenytoin and she was discharged about three weeks later without any neurologic deficit. 
There was no significant peripheral lymphadenopathy. Thyroid gland was not enlarged. His abdomen was soft and flat with no organomegaly. Chest and cardiac examinations revealed no abnormalities. Laboratory findings included a red blood cell count of 4.51 × 10 12 / L; hemoglobin 11.1 g/dl; white blood cell count 16.31 × 10 9 / L; (neutrophils 61.6%; lymphocytes 13.1%; monocytes, 7.0%; eosinophils, 0.1%; basophils, 0.7%); platelet count 308 × 10 9 / L; high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (42 mm/h), high C-reactive protein (14.88mg/L), low-serum sodium (129 mmol/L), high-serum potassium (5.4 mmol/L), low serum chloride (92 mmol/L), blood glucose level (118 mg/dl), normal kidney function, normal liver function, low-serum cortisol 8 am (2.9 µg/dL), 4 pm (2.6 µg/dL), TB IgM antibody (?ve), TB IgG antibody (+ve) and positive purified protein derivative test (PPD). A Chest x-ray revealed no abnormalities. A Thoracic lumbar plain film revealed narrowing of the L1- L2 space with irregularity and osteolysis of the endplates suggesting the possibility of lumbar spine TB. An Abdominal CT imaging revealed bilateral adrenal mass like enlargement with irregular enhancement and lesion like changes without calcification. Based on the clinical presentation, laboratory findings of positive IgG anti-TB antibodies, positive PPD test, High ESR, low serum cortisol, low sodium level and high potassium level, beside the radiological findings of spinal and adrenal involvement, the diagnosis of combined primary adrenal and spinal TB with adrenal insufficiency was highly suggested. Based on this diagnosis, the patient started anti-TB drugs in the form of (isoniazid, rifampicin, ethambutol, pyrazinamide) in combination with vitamin B6 tablets and steroid therapy in the form of prednisolone (7.5 mg/day) in two divided dose of 5 mg in the morning 8 am and 2.5 mg afternoon at 4 pm. He was called for clinical follow up every 6 months and all the necessary investigations were performed each time. In the recent follow up of our patient in 2012, he was without clinical symptoms and all the laboratory investigations were nearly normalized. The anti TB drugs were stopped but steroid therapy in the form of prednisolone is continued with same dose as earlier. The thoracic lumbar plain film taken later in 2012, that we have presented in the article demonstrated nearly the same finding as shown in the earlier film taken during the initial presentation. A CT scan of his adrenal glands documented a relevant reduction of the bilateral adrenal masses and the adrenal lesions were significantly reduced than the earlier CT film along with diminished degree of enhancement, however it is not conclusive about the restoration of its normal adrenal function. 
Past medical history included Henoch-Schönlein purpura during childhood. Social history included smoking (11 pack-years), family history was non-contributory. She had no known drug allergies. Complete blood count revealed marked neutrophilic leukocytosis (WBC 23.400 /lt). A CT scan revealed small bilateral pleural effusions, small hepatic enlargement, Gerota's fascia thickening, perineal soft tissue stranding with fascial thickening and small bubbles of air. Fournier's gangrene was set as working diagnosis (calculated FGSI 8, UFGSI 10 and LRINEC 7) and the patient was transported to operation room for immediate radical surgical debridement of necrotic tissue. Blood and surgical material was taken for microbiologic analysis. Due to the extent of the surgical debridement, the patient was admitted postoperatively to the ICU (SOFA score 6, APACHE II score 12); where sedation (midazolam 30 mcg/kg/hr c.iv), analgesia (fentanyl 3 mcg/kg/min c.iv), triple antibiotic regimen with meropenem 2gr q8h i.v., clindamycin 600mg q 6h i.v. and daptomycin 500mg q.d. i.v., gastroprotective and antithrombotic prophylaxis were initiated. During the next 3 days a second CT and an obstetrical consultation were conducted with no significant findings. Human immunodeficiency virus and diabetic screen were also negative. Yet, the patient remained febrile. Microbiology cultures from material taken from the surgical trauma area revealed Candida albicans, Staphylococcus epidermidis and Klebsiella pneumonia ; hence antibiotic regimen was modified and antimycotic treatment (caspofungin 100mg q.d. i.v.) was initiated too. Debridements were repeated every 24 hours but due to the extent of the lesions, on the 10 th day, the patient was transported to operation room for temporary ileostomy till the end of the therapy. Percutaneous tracheotomy was also performed. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy was not available at the setting. One day after the second surgery, patient's condition complicated with MRSA ventilation associated pneumonia. Along with that, a localized oedema appeared in her left upper limb. A palpable mass along the anterior margin of the sternocleidomastoid muscle was also noticed. Vascular ultrasound examination revealed occlusion of left internal jugular vein. Transcranial Doppler examination was normal. Dental consultation and examination of soft palate and peritonsilar tissues showed no abnormalities. Linezolide 600 mg q12h i.v. was added to antibiotic regimen. Since debridements were going on, simultaneous anticoagulation therapy was started with only bemiparine 2500 b.i.d. s.c. Gradually, the patient became afebrile and her clinical condition improved. She was discharged from ICU 13 days later. A follow-up CTA confirmed the disappearance of the left jugular vein thrombosis. About a month after her ICU discharge, an operation was performed for ileostomy closure and reconstruction of the right gluteal region. On a follow-up examination 6 months later, the young woman had returned to her normal everyday life. 
At the age of 6 she had a history of callosotomy to control her seizures. At the age of 18 during a laser treatment done in order to get rid of her port wine birthmark she had her first seizure since callosotomy. After that she was prescribed carbamazepine 400 mg at daily dose and never had a seizure since then. According to the story taken from her parents even though she had a normal development at infancy she barely graduated from elementary school and she's hardly literate. There was nothing significant on her family history except for her elder sister's port wine stain on her face. The elder sister had no feature of SWS and no researches were done regarding her stain. She was inscribed daily doses of ketiapin 25 mg for anxiety disorder and venlafaxine 75 mg for both anxiety disorder and the chronic headaches. She was also inscribed NSAID drugs. After the first week of this treatment her headaches were slightly decreased by heaviness but the frequency was the same. At her physical examination a facial nevus -occurred due to choroid angioma-on the right forehead, right eyelid, nasal wing and the cheek was observed. Intra oral examination showed a right sided overgrowth of gingiva. Gingival overgrowth was bright red in color and showed blanching on applying pressure suggesting angiomatous enlargement. On her extremities a mild asymmetry was visible. Her left arm and leg was slightly smaller in portions and showed hemiparesis both in the upper and lower extremities of the same size. On her ophthalmological evaluation she was diagnosed with glaucoma of the right eye. On her psychiatric examination she showed signs of anxiety disorder. Her neurological examination was not remarkable except for her hemiparesis. Cranial CT scans showed diffuse atrophy in the right hemisphere and irregular double-contoured gyriform cortical calcifications in the right occipital area. Gadolinium enhanced brain MRI revealed multiple dilated pial venous vascular structures on right hemisphere also with the diffuse atrophy on the same side. Axial T1 weighted cranial MRI shows right calvarial thickness compared to the left and right hemisphere is asymmetrically smaller than the left. In addition to that, T2 weighted MRI shows extensive venous formations around corpus of right lateral ventricle and at Gallen vein localization and widespread vascular formations are seen at perivascular space, anterior to third ventricle at Willis polygon localization and at right temporooccipital area at quadrigeminal cistern localization. She was performed a proteus intelligence test in which she had 75 points and accepted as mildly mentally retarded. Proteus intelligence test in which she had 75 points and accepted as mildly mentally retarded. 
On admission, she had a regular pulse rate of 100 beats/minute, a respiratory rate of 28/minute and a blood pressure of 164/105mmHg. Apart from the right sided facial nerve palsy, there were no neurologic deficits. Her skin was normal, devoid of any petechial haemorrhage or ecchymosis. She neither had oedema of the feet nor jaundice. She had a non-tender gravid uterus of about 30 weeks, her cervix was 2cm dilated and 40% effaced and foetal heart beats were absent. Examination findings of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems were unremarkable. Urine dipstick had 2+proteinuria and she was hyperglycemic. She was diagnosed to have placenta abruption with intrauterine foetal death, preeclampsia, Bell?s palsy and gestational diabetes, and was put on methyldopa, nifedipine, hydralazine and magnesium sulphate. A sliding scale of regular insulin was also started, and the Shirodkar suture removed. Four hours after admission she had a vaginal delivery of a fresh still birth weighing 1200gm without any congenital abnormalities. The patient had a postpartum haemorrhage of 550mls, which was treated by uterine massage and oxytocin (10units bolus dose followed by an infusion of 40 units in 500 ml of normal saline). No significant retroplacental clots were noted. Investigations done on admission revealed normocytic anaemia (9. 5gm/dL), leucocytosis (17. 3 x 10 3 /µL) and a platelet count of 201. 6 x 10 3 /µ L of blood. Serum creatinine, urea and liver function tests were within normal limits. One day after admission she started complaining of fever, palpitations, blurred vision, dizziness, headache and shortness of breath. Physical examination revealed severe conjunctiva pallor, mild pedal oedema, tachypnoea and a clear chest on auscultation. Cardiovascular examination and echocardiographic findings were unremarkable. Her haemoglobin and platelet count had dropped to 6. 5gm/dL and 86 x 10 3 /µL of blood respectively. Two units of packed red cells were transfused and she was started on antibiotics for suspected septicaemia. On the second day of admission she became anuric with increased facial and bilateral leg swelling. Her laboratory data showed elevated serum creatinine and urea (431µ mol/L and 12. 9mmol/L respectively) and lactate dehydrogenase (1850 IU/L). Her liver enzymes were raised (serum aspartate aminotransferase; 242IU/L and serum alanine aminotransferase; 109IU/L). Based on haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and thrombocytopenia, HELLP syndrome was diagnosed. A consumptive coagulopathy was also considered because of the clinical presentation of fever and haemolysis that followeda stillbirth. The patient was conservatively treated with whole blood and platelet transfusions. Because of falling urinary output magnesium sulphate was withheld and oral nifedipine continued. Two days later the patient was still anuric and her creatinine and urea continued to rise. She was confused, pale with petechial haemorrhage and ecchymosis all over her body. Her platelet count had dropped to 35 ×10 3 /56;L. There was no change in her haemoglobin in spite of blood transfusion. She had a normal coagulation profile (Prothrombin time; 9. 8 seconds, Partial thromboplastin time; 25. 4 seconds and international normalized ratio; 0. 96). Serum D-dimer level was 5. 7µg/mL (normal values < 0. 5µg/mL) and, fragmented red blood cells (schistocytes) were found on a peripheral blood smear. In addition, blood cultures were negative. Finally, we suspected TTP-HUS because of worsening haemolysis (falling haemoglobin level, presence of schistocytes, elevated LDH) and thrombocytopenia in spite of supportive therapy. Consumptive coagulopathy was excluded because of normal coagulation indices. She was, therefore, transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) and started on dexamethasone, supportive measures and haemodialysis. Platelet transfusions were stopped and she received several units of fresh frozen plasma over subsequent days. Three weeks after hospital admission the patient?s clinical, haematological and biochemical parameters had slowly normalized, and she was discharged home in good clinical condition. Subsequent outpatient visits showed no clinical or biochemical deterioration. 
On left side swelling was 11X8X6 cm3 (approx.), non-tender, firm to hard in consistency, surface was regular and it was associated with restricted mobility and it was possible to get over the swelling, transillumination was negative. On right side swelling was 8X6X5 cm3 (approx.), non-tender, firm to hard in consistency, surface was regular and it was associated with restricted mobility, it was possible to get over the swelling, transillumination was negative. Testicular sensations on the left side were absent and on the right side were altered (reduced). Also, the inguinal lymph nodes were bilaterally swollen, non-tender and palpable. Patient was admitted to the male surgery ward with a provisional diagnosis of the bilateral testicular malignancy. Patient was admitted and routine and diagnostic investigations were performed, hemoglobin was 14.6 gm%, Total leukocyte count, differential leukocyte count and platelet count were within their normal range. Serum urea and electrolyte levels were normal. Liver and kidney function tests were within normal limits. Chest radiograph did not reveal any abnormality. Urine routine and microscopic examinations were normal; blood group and cross matching were also done. Special investigations included the assessment of serum tumour markers Beta HCG was elevated 12 mIU/ml, Alpha-fetoprotein and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were normal. Ultrasonography of the abdomen and pelvis revealed the bilateral enlargement of the inguinal lymph nodes with normal echosensitivity and morphology. Testes were multilobulated enlarged and multiple whorled masses were seen scattered all around with peripheral vascularity suggestive of neoplastic nature. CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis revealed left testis was enlarged measuring about 11X8.8X7.8cm and appears heterogeneously hypodense with a CT attenuation value of 20-30HU on post contrast CT scan there was mild heterogeneous enlargement of the testis with CT attenuation of 30-40HU with few enhancing areas. Right testis was enlarged measuring about 8X6.9X5.5cm and appear heterogeneously hypodense with CT attenuation value of 20-30HU on post contrast CT scan there was mild heterogenous enlargement of the testis with CT attenuation of 30-40HU with few enhancing areas. Both epididymis were not seen separately from the enlarged testis bilaterally. There was moderately non enhancing collection seen within the left extra testicular compartment. There were no internal septations suggestive of left hydrocele. The overlying scrotal wall was thin and stretched. Intraoperatively biopsy of the left testis was done from the suspicious area and frozen sections were sent for the histopathological examination. Frozen sections were suggestive of malignancy. Histopathological findings, revealed spermatocytic seminoma stage-IA. The patient underwent Left sided orchidectomy under general anaesthesia and left testis, spermatic cord and the left inguinal lymph nodes were removed. His postoperative period was uneventful. Sutures removed on the 10th day and the wound was healthy. After 5 days intraoperatively biopsy of the right testis was done and frozen sections were sent for the histopathological examination. Frozen sections were suggestive of malignancy which was later confirmed as spermatocytic seminoma stage-IA, thus confirming bilateral spermatocytic seminoma. Also the histopathological findings were later confirmed by immunohistochemistry. After 15 days Right sided orchidectomy was performed under general anaesthesia and right testis, spermatic cord and the right inguinal lymph nodes were removed. Sutures removed on the 10th day and the wound was healthy. Histopathological studies revealed that both testes were atrophic and multilobulated. The microscopic evaluation also revealed atrophic seminiferous tubules with reduced spermatogenesis, and dysplastic cells. The seminiferous tubules were surrounded by numerous infiltrates composed of lymphocytes, neutrophils, and macrophages. Neoplastic cells and inflammatory infiltrates were present in both testes. The patient was given prophylactic radiotherapy for next 15 days and the total dose given was 20Gy to prevent any relapse. He was advised to follow up every 6 months, presently he was asymptomatic, follow-up CECT abdomen and pelvis are normal, tumor markers are well within the limits and there is no evidence of disease. 
She was alone in the room after breastfeeding while her mother was attending to other domestic needs in the backyards. Patient is a second set of a preterm twin and the fourth children of the second wife in a polygamous family setting. Father is a primary school dropout and he is a lorry driver. Mother is a secondary school dropout and she is a sewing mistress by profession. The patient lives with her other siblings in a single room in a rented apartment which has no fence. Mother also reported free mobility and navigation of rats within and around the house before the incidence. No similar incidence in the other siblings. Patient is a second set of a preterm twin and the last of the four children of the second wife in a polygamous family setting. Father is a primary school dropout and he is a lorry driver. Mother is a secondary school dropout and she is a sewing mistress by profession. The patient lives with her other siblings in a single room in a rented apartment which has no fence. Mother also reported free mobility and navigation of rats within and around the house before the incidence. No similar incidence in the other siblings. Examination revealed an acutely ill looking child with complete loss of the left upper and lower eyelids, partial loss of both nares, 2 by 3cm ulcer on the left cheek and left central corneal ulcer. Her weight was1kg, occipitofrontal circumference was, left arm circumference was 37cm and cranial caudal length was 22cm. She was neither pale nor febrile. The right eye with and the adnexae were intact. Systemic examinations were not contributory. She was admitted into special baby care unit (SCBU) of the hospital and was reviewed by the pediatrician who recommended that she should be in the incubator, and was given subcutaneous ante tetanus toxoid 750 IU stat after negative test dose, intramuscular TT 0.5ml stat, intravenous (IV) Unasyn 150mg/kg/dy in 3 divided doses, IV Gentamicin 5mg/kg/day. She was also fed with EBM at 120kcal/kg/day. The wound was cleaned daily with normal saline after review by the plastic surgeon. Generous chloramphenicol ointment was applied over the ocular injury while the globe was protected by Catellar shield during her sleep and at night. She was also commenced on artifial eye tear hourly. Two weeks after the injury she was noticed to have developed left central microbial keratitis. Examination at this time revealed a deeply stained central corneal ulcer with circum-corneal injection. The care giver was offered a referral to a corneal specialist at an outside facility but they declined due to financial constraint. Patient was to have corneal scrapings done for microscopic, culture and sensitivity but the care giver could also not afford it. She was commenced on hourly Lomefloxacillin (3%) eye drop which was procured through voluntary donations from the physicians. The corneal ulcer and infiltrates have resolved and the care giver has been informed of the need for penetrating keratoplasty and lid reconstruction as soon as possible. The child is currently doing well under routine follow-up at ophthalmology, pediatrics and plastic surgery departments. 
The first obstetrical utrasonography requested two days prior to admission revealed an abdominal pregnancy of 32 weeks and 3 days with a live foetus and severe oligoamnios. The placenta was inserted over the fundus of her polymyomatous uterus and probably on the omentum without contact with big vessels. This result prompted her referral to our service for management. She had her first menses at 12 years old. Her menstrual cycle is regular with duration of 30 days and she bleeds for four days. She had no method of contraception and her first coïtus was at 16. She has had a total of 6 sexual partners. She reported a past history of pelvic inflammatory disease due to Chlamydia. Her blood group is A rhesus positive. She has no allergy and has never received blood transfusion. She was G 5 P 2022. The first and third pregnancies ended by normal deliveries of two boys weighing 3 700grammes (g) and 4 300g respectively. After 8 years of secondary infertility following the first delivery she had a tubal pregnancy treated medically. The 4th pregnancy was in the right tube and led to an emergency salpingectomy following rupture. Her husband is a 33 year old smoker with tobacco index of 3.4 packet-years. Systemic enquiry revealed painful active foetal kicks since the 16th week of pregnancy. 
On physical exam, her general condition was good and vital parameters were normal. Cardiac and pulmonary exams were normal. Her abdomen presented a scar corresponding to a Pfannenstiel incision. On palpation, foetal parts were easily felt just beneath the abdominal wall. The symphysio-xyphoïdal distance was 38 centimeters and the abdominal circumference was 90 centimeters. The foetus was in transverse lie and foetal heart rate was 146 beats per minute. Bowel sounds were normal. Under speculum, the cervico-vaginal mucosa was normal and the cervix was closed and deviated to the left. Digital vaginal exploration revealed a long firm and closed cervix with and increased uterus consistent with a pregnancy of 16 weeks. Our working diagnosis was an abdominal pregnancy with a live foetus at 34 weeks and 2 days. We admitted the patient and planned a semi-urgent laparotomy after lung maturation with corticosteroids (2 intramuscular injections of 12 milligrammes of bethamethasone 24 hours apart). Anesthesiologists and digestive surgeons evaluated the patient and six pints of compatible packed red blood cells were booked. After a normal pre-operative work up, laparotomy was done under general anesthesia. The findings were: an intra-peritoneal gestational sac with severe oligoamnios containing a live male foetus weighing 2.600 g. Roughly 80 % of the placenta was inserted on intestinal loops and omentun and the remaining 20 % was inserted on the uterine fundus. The foetus was bent on the left side and his right foot was talipes valgus. We didn't found hemoperitoneun. The uterus was soft, globular and consistent with a pregnancy of 16 weeks. The uterine adnexae were not visible and the pelvis free of adhesions. After extraction of the foetus, the umbilical cord was cut flush with the placenta that was left in situ because of the high risk of severe bleeding. Two Delbet corrugated drains were put in parieto-colic gutters and in the pouch of Douglas. The patient did well post - operatively and the drains were removed on the fourth post operative day. Seven days after surgery serial abdominal ultrasonography and dosages of plasmatic beta Human Chorionic Gonadotropin (β-hCG) were started. The first β-hCG level was 13 266 milliunits per milliliter and first ultrasound revealed a vascularised placental mass. The patient was discharged eight days after written counseling on danger signs that should prompt emergency consultation (abdominal pain, abdominal trauma, dizziness, extreme fatigue). The placenta and beta hCG took eleven months to disappear completely. The baby was immediately admitted in the pediatric intensive care unit where he died 3 hours later with a diagnosis of severe respiratory distress. 
The patient was initially treated with Cordarone and because of the persistence of ventricular tachycardia and the occurrence of secondary hyperthyroidism the treatment was changed into flecainide. Then, in front of the recurrence of ventricular tachycardia, hyperten (β blocker) was introduced. Radiofrequency ablation was indicated later because of the failure of this medical treatment. 
 A first attempt of radiofrequency treatment was complicated by ventricular tachycardia with ST elevation and troponin increase. Coronary angiography was normal. A second attempt of radiofrequency treatment was successfully made in the same year and the patient was treated by Detensiel, flecainide and Aspégic. Since the patient hasn't shown ventricular arrhythmias. 
Our patient was pregnant and pregnancy was well tolerated. During pregnancy, our patient didn't show ventricular arrhythmia. She was scheduled for cesarean section delivery at the 38th week of pregnancy. Preoperative evaluation showed a pregnant woman in the 34 week of pregnancy with normal somatic examination. Cardiovascular examination showed sinusal cardiac rhythm. 
The ECG showed a right bundle branch block and inverted T waves in right precordial leads beyond V1. The chest radiography showed signs of right ventricular hypertrophy and a cardiothoracic index of 0.6. A transthoracic echocardiogram has been requested since and it has shown a dilated RV and reduced LVEF to 40%. Biological blood analyses (blood cell count, prothrombine ration and liver and kidney blood analyses) were correct
 We prescribed 6 hours of preoperative fasting and we continued the same treatment received by the patient (Detensiel, and Flucaine ASPEGIC) until the day of surgery. At the end of the consultation we explained the risk of bleeding, transfusion and the risk of per operative cardiac rhythm disorders. We informed the patient about the anesthetic techniques (general anesthesia) and postoperative analgesia by titration of morphine. The day of surgery, we verified the checklist of the operatory room and we verified the presence of defibrillator. After the standard means of monitoring (ECG, pSO2, non invasive blood pressure and capnography), two peripheral venous lines of 18 G were taken. The patient was put in left lateral decubitus position. 
We prescripted 500 ml of Ringer lactate over 30 minutes. Three minutes before induction of anesthesia, the preoxygenation was performed. The anesthetic induction was done after the installation of drapes, in rapid sequence by propofol (3mg/kg), Remifentanil (1μg/kg) and Rocuronium (0.6 mg / kg) with Sellick maneuver. Intubation was carried out by a tube of 7Fr. The anesthetic maintenance was given by continuous infusion of propofol (10 mg / kg / hour) and remifentanil (0.1 mcg / Kg/ min). After fetal extraction, we administered a prophylactic antibiotherapy (2g of Cefazolin). Oxytocin was administered at a dose of 5UI intravenous injection, and 10 IU in 500 ml infusion of saline. Intraoperative hemodynamic status was maintained stable with a systolic blood pressure of 110-100 mm Hg, diastolic blood pressure of 60-50 mm Hg and heart rate between 60 and 70 beats per minute. During the intervention, no desaturation was noted, end tidal p CO2 was maintained between 36 and 40 mm Hg and intrathoracic pressure did not exceed 25 mm Hg. Extubation was performed on the operating table. The postoperative period was uneventful with no electric changes on ECG and no bleeding. The postoperative analgesia was provided by paracetamol (15 mg/kg/6 hours) and morphine (5 mg subcutaneously every 6 hours). The patient leaved hospital 3 days after delivery and breastfeeding was proscribed. 
Physician in the ward, thought that this frustrated angry behavior was due to patient`s dissatisfaction of rehabilitation achievements. Detailed review found no prior psychiatric history, history of substance abuse and known exposure to neuroleptics. Patient had one previous episode of urinary tract infections (UTI) during his hospital stay that required treatment with oral antibiotics. On the first day of assessment, the patient`s initial signs and symptoms included a temperature of 38.4°C, agitated and combative behavior, refusing medication (including muscle relaxants) and oral intake and progressively deteriorating sleep. The provisional diagnosis was delirium due to a recurrent UTI. Olanzapine 10 mg IM stat was given and urinalysis (UA) was ordered. On the following day, (UA) revealed evidence of urinary tract bacterial infection for which an intravenous antibiotic was commenced. On the same day the patient continued to have agitated combative behavior for which he received haloperidol 10 mg IM in the afternoon (which calmed him down). On the third day the patient demonstrated a clear change in his mental state. His agitation decreased, however he began to show perplexed affect, distractibility and poor initiation of purposeful behavior. He was immobile and unresponsive, staring and not responding to verbal commands but responding to pain with purposeful withdrawal. Assessment of central nervous system (CNS) was difficult as the patient was constantly moving and had generalized spasticity. He responded to questions by uttering a few words and became very agitated, shouting obscenities. Laboratory results done on the same day showed the following results: white blood cell count: 18.2 cells/ml, serum creatinine: 93 µmol/L, fasting blood glucose : 8.37 mmol/l, calcium :2.59 mmol/l, phosphorus : 1.79 mmol/l, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) :162 IU/L, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) :76 U/L, gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT): 157 U/L, and creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) level : 4731 IU/L. The urine output was low at 350ml/12h. The patient was started on hydration and immediately transferred to ICU with differential diagnoses that included NMS and meningitis. Early the next morning the patient had a complex partial seizure which ceased after IV diazepam administration. Lumbar puncture (LP), computerized tomography (CT) of the head and electroencephalogram (EEG) did not indicate any significant findings. The diagnosis of NMS was retained, and the patient was started on bromocriptine 7.5 mg three times daily and lorazepam 1 mg at bedtime. On the 5th day after the (ICU) admission the patient demonstrated decreased rigidity and agitation and increased periods of wakefulness. On the 6th day patient regained a full level of orientation and cooperation. Liver function tests and CPK normalized and patient was transferred to the general ward. 
On past history there was no history of similar illness in past neither there was any past history of significant medical or surgical illness. There was no family history of similar complaints. The patient did not take any treatment for the above complaints and presented for the first time in our hospital for the similar complaints. 
General examination reveals normal and stable vital parameters. There was no icterus or pallor. The examination of remaining body did not reveal any other swelling. The systemic examination of other systems was within normal limits. On local examination there was a globular mass on right side of palate with normal overlying mucosa was seen. The lesion appeared to arise from mid part of palate, extending up to the posterior border of hard palate. It was non-tender, firm, and non compressible and had well defined margins. Posteriorly it was limited by the posterior margin of soft palate and anteriorly merging with the soft palate. Superiorly it was extending into nasopharyngeal region. The transillumination test was negative. Rest of otorhinolaryngological examination did not reveal any other significant abnormality. On the basis of history and clinical examination a diagnosis of solid non infectious mass of soft palate likely of benign etiology was made. The possibility of infective etiology (palatal abscess) was less likely as there no fever neither there was any tenderness or erythema. 
She was then advised a contrast enhanced computed tomography scan of paranasal sinuses. CT scan was performed on a dual source 128 slice spiral CT with coronal and saggital reformations. The CT scan revealed a well defined homogeneously enhancing hypodense soft tissue les ion of size 4,27 cm X 4cm X 4,5 cm arising from right side of soft palate and abutting the hard palate anteriorly, uvula posteriorly, tongue inferiorly and nasopharyngeal wall superiorly. Laterally it was seen to be abutting the right lateral nasopharyngeal wall. 
There was no infiltration of the surrounding structures with well defined surrounding planes. There was no non enhancing area within to suggest central necrosis of secondary infection. 
The radiological features were suggestive of a benign etiology neoplastic mass. The possibility of other clinical diagnosis of palatal abscess was completely ruled out. The patient was then advised surgical excision of the lesion. A biopsy was performed, which was suggestive of PA. All preoperative blood and urine investigations were done, which were within normal limits. 
The patient underwent surgery under general anesthesia. The excised mass was 5 × 4 cm and surgical wound was closed with advancement of adjacent mucosa. 
Histopathological examination revealed epithelial and mesenchymal cells and along with other features was suggestive of pleomorphic adenoma. The patient's postoperative course was uneventful. The healing was satisfactory. No recurrence was observed after a follow-up period of 1 year. 
No history of scrotal pain, no bleeding from any other part of his body, no weight loss, no chronic cough, no noticeable fever or drenching night sweats. He was not a known diabetic or sickle cell disease patient. He had been taking oral sildenafil intermittently for 2 years to enhance sexual performance. The patient had a positive history of unprotected sexual intercourse with current and previous girlfriends. His father and elder sister were known hypertensives. He drank alcoholic beverages occasionally but was a lifelong non-smoker. 
On examination, he was not in any obvious respiratory or painful distress, not pale, anicteric, afebrile to touch, acyanosed, no digital clubbing, no significant peripheral lymph node enlargement, and no dependent oedema. There were no signs of Cushing's syndrome, acromegaly, or systemic sclerosis. He was conscious and alert, well oriented in time, place and person, scoring 10/10 on the abbreviated mental test score. He had no obvious focal neurologic deficits. His arterial walls were thickened and locomotor brachialis was present. Radiofemoral delay and renal bruits were absent. His blood pressure was 200/120 mmHg. The apex beat was at the 6th left intercostal space, lateral to the mid-clavicular line, heaving. The first, second and fourth heart sounds were present, all of normal intensity with no murmurs heard. The respiratory rate was 20 cycles per minute. Respiratory system examination revealed no abnormalities. Abdominal examination was normal. Genito-urinary system examination including prostate examination was also normal. A diagnosis of severe hypertension and haematospermia was made. Investigation results included a full blood count that revealed a haematocrit of 34% while other parameters were within the normal range. Serum chemistry showed increased urea levels (urea 11.5 mmol/l), and elevated creatinine (300/mol/l). His lipid profile revealed mildly elevated LDL cholesterol (3.4 mmol/l) whiles other lipid parameters were normal. His fasting blood sugar was normal. Immunological testing showed no evidenced of HIV or tuberculosis. Radiography of the chest showed cardiomegaly with left ventricular preponderance but no evidence of aortic coarctation. Electrocardiography showed sinus rhythm with increased P-terminal force (left atrial enlargement), T-wave inversion in leads II, III, aVF, V5 and V6, left ventricular hypertrophy (Sokolow Lyon voltage criteria SV1 + RV5 = 41 mm). Dipstick urinalysis showed trace glycosuria but no protein or blood. Urine microscopy revealed 0 - 3 pus cells per high power field but showed no casts. There was no significant bacterium growth on urine culture. Seminal fluid analysis revealed a brownish gelatinous fluid with a volume of 2.5 mL, pH 8.5 (7.2 - 7.8), numerous red blood cells, 0 - 5 pus cells per high power field, the spermatozoa count 10.2 x 10 6 ml with 30% being actively motile, sluggishly motile 10%, non-motile 60%, normal morphology 60 %, abnormal morphology 40%. Seminal fluid culture did not have any significant yields. Fundoscopy was not done. Renal ultrasound scan, echocardiogram, prostate scan and prostate specific antigen were also ordered for but were not done on account of financial constraints. 
The patient was admitted and counseled on his clinical condition, lifestyle modification and DASH (dietary approach to stop hypertension) diet. His blood pressure was lowered gradually, over several days, with oral nifedipine control release tabs, tabs moduretic, and lisinopril and he discharged home after 2 weeks at which time his blood pressure was 150/100 mm Hg. An appointment for follow-up visit was made (cardiology and urology) for the following week. In follow-up visits, he complained that when his blood pressure was measured outside the hospital, it was significantly less than the values obtained at the hospital. He also had the problem of his sexual partners running scared and avoiding him once they discover the haematospermia. Some weeks after being on regular anti-hypertensives, the haematospermia resolved completely. 
He was however lost to follow-up, as his family members convinced him that his problems had been a "spiritual attack" and he resolved to seek further treatment at a church. About three months after last visit, he is said to have suffered a stroke while still at the church (this information was gotten from one of his relations as we made attempts to contact him). He is yet to be seen or heard from since. 
Her past medical history reveals asthma attacks that were treated as they occurred. Her last asthma attack happened over a year ago. She is primipara with a healthy child. The first episodes of palpitations occurred in July 2011 with a normal electrocardiogram. She was not pregnant then. Cardiovascular examination is normal with a heart rate of 84 bpm, no heart murmur nor signs of heart failure. Blood pressure while lying down and standing up is 120/70 mmHg on her right arm and 110/60 mmHg on her left. Examination of other organs is normal. The 12-lead surface ECG is normal with regular sinus rhythm at 81 bpm and a normal adjusted QT interval. Doppler echocardiography is normal. Systolic function of both ventricles was preserved (LVEF = 70%; TAPSE = 23 mm). For instance, there is no left or right ventricular hypertrophy or dilation. 24-hoursHolter ECG shows a sinus rhythm at 88 bpm without rhythm or conduction disorders. 
Her electrolytes, creatinine, blood count, blood glucose and ultra-sensitive TSH are normal except for hypomagnesemia at 0.50 mmol. She is prescribed six tablets a day of magnesium for a week, and atenolol 25 mg per day. Driving is not recommended. A control of her metabolic panel, realized on November 3, 2011 is normal. Her lipothymia symptoms reoccurred on November 22, 2011, after a three weeks amendment. A 24-hours Holter ECG performed on November 23, 2011 is in sinus rhythm at 96 bpm, revealed many ventricular extrasystoles with R/T phenomenon. These extrasystoles included 30 doublets and six attacks of unsustained ventricular tachycardia (VT). She is prescribed amiodarone 200 mg daily which is quickly replaced by atenolol 50 mg and 100 mg causing the symptoms to subside. On January 25 th, 2012, she reported chest tightness lasting less than a minute without palpitations or lipothymia. The patient is two months pregnant. Cardiac examination is normal. Troponin is negative and lipid profile is normal. Atenolol treatment is continued at 100 mg/day. On March 26 th, 2012, Mrs. AMS is four months pregnant and is admitted to the emergency room for lipothymia, discomfort, and dizziness preceded by palpitations. She is anxious. Cardiac examination and blood pressure are normal. Pregnancy has a normal course. A surface ECG records a monomorphic VT attack such as a left conduction slowness that was unsustained but rapid. Thyroid hormones, blood electrolytes, glucose, creatinine and blood count were normal. She was hospitalized in intensive care under ECG monitoring through a scope that recorded many unsustained VT attacks. Her treatment consisted potassium chloride, magnesium sulfate through an electric pump, the substitution of 100 mg atenolol by 200 mg acebutolol, and enoxaparin for primary prevention of venous thromboembolic disease. Ventricular tachycardia attacks persisted under this treatment. Replacement of acebutolol by nadolol brought her back to normal sinus rhythm and she was discharged on the third day of hospitalization. An outpatient Holter ECG was performed on 03/28/2012 recorded ventricular extrasystoles numerous unsustained VT attacks and rare supraventricular extrasystoles. She is readmitted on March 30 th, 2012, for the same symptoms. A Holter ECG revealed frequent monomorphic ventricular extrasystoles (1287) of which 318 unsustained VT attacks. The combination of 100 mg flecainide (1/2 tablet three times per day) with 80 mg nadolol (1/4 tablet twice à day) controlled the arrhythmia and she was discharged on the tenth day of hospitalization. Under this treatment and oral solution of magnesium sulfate a Holter ECG monitoring revealed a marked improvement in monomorphic ventricular extrasystoles with only three doublets and one unsustained ventricular attack. Mrs. AMS is then transferred to another country where advanced technology electrophysiological study confirmed the infundibular type of her VT. She is successfully treated with radiofrequency ablation. Antiarrhythmic drugs are discontinued. At 27 months post-ablation Ms. AMS is doing well. She has had a vaginal delivery of a full term healthy child with no cardiac complication before undergoing radiofrequency. 
She was hemodynamically stable (blood pressure (BP) 130/70 mmHg and had a regular pulse of 88 beats /minute.). She had good color and was slightly polypneic with no peripheral cyanosis (peripheral oxygen saturation 97%). She presented no palpable adenopathy or signs of jugular distension. Cardiac auscultation revealed rhythmic sounds with no murmur or friction rub. There were no signs of peripheral edema or deep vein thrombosis. Pulmonary, abdominal, and neurological examination revealed no abnormalities. The admission electrocardiogram (ECG) was normal. On investigation, blood biochemistry, liver, renal function, thyroid function and, hemogram showed no abnormalities except lymphopenia. Her angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) level was 132 units (normal range < 68 units). The immunological markers were negative. A contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) chest scan showed almost complete regression of mediastinal lymphadenopathies without pleuroparenchymal lesion. Respiratory functional tests and bronchoscopy with transbronchial lung biopsy were normal. The transthoracic echocardiography with Doppler showed abnormal left ventricular relaxation and systolic dysfunction of the left ventricle with ventricular ejection fraction (EF) of 40%. In the light of these symptoms and echocardiographic abnormalities, for which other possible causes have been excluded, the diagnosis of sarcoidosis with heart involvement was suspected. Thus, more specialized cardiac evaluation was needed. 24 hour holter monitoring showed recurrent episodes of 2000 monomorphic ventricular extrasystoles. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with gadolinium contrast showed evidence of delayed hyper enhancement in both the basal and inferolateral left ventricular regions, suspicious for fibrogranulomatous tissue of sarcoidosis. The left ventricular ejection fraction was 40%. Laboratory tests confirmed negative serial markers of myocardial necrosis. Technetium99m-sestamibi scintigraphy myocardial perfusion study showed decreased uptake in the inferolateral and apical ventricular myocardium, which was reversible during stress (reverse distribution). Coronary angiography and let ventriculography showed angiographically normal coronary arteries. Considering all these clinical and investigatioanal findings in a patient with a history of Lofgren's syndrome and in the absence of primary heart disease, the diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis was made. The patient started with a dose of 1mg/kg/day of corticosteroids in addition to supportive care. This dose was tapered gradually to a maintenance level of 15 mg per day over 5 months. To this day, evolution was favorable. Case 2 A 48-year-old Tunisian woman, presented to our consultation with a history of intermittent palpitations and exertional dyspnea of 4 months duration, progressively worsening for 2 weeks before, without any history of chest pain or syncope. She had a past history of systemic sarcoidosis diagnosed in April 2009 on the basis of the following compatible clinical and radiologic findings: systemic symptoms (such as fatigue, anorexia, and weight loss), parotid enlargement, negative tuberculin skin test, lymphopenia, hypercalciuria, increased serum ACE level, intrathoracic lymphadenopathies which were hilar, bilateral symmetrical, and associated with right paratracheal window lymph node involvement. Pulmonary functions tests demonstrated decreased volumes and CO diffusing capacity. Lymphocytosis in broncho-alveolar lavage was observed and a CD4+/CD8+ lymphocyte ratio was greater than 3.5. Lip biopsy of accessory salivary glands was compatible with grade 1 according to Chisholm's classification. After ruling out the other granulomatous diseases such as tuberculosis, lymphoma, crohn's disease, Wegner granulomatosis..., the diagnosis of systemic sarcoisosis was ascertained. A short-course corticosteroid therapy with antimalarial drug were initiated with a favorable evolution both clinically and radiogically. The patient was presented in November 2011 with a history of intermittent palpitations and exertional dyspnea of 4 months duration, progressively worsening for 2 weeks before. She denied any history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease and thyroid disease. She did not smoke, consume alcohol, or illicit drugs. On physical examination, she was conscious, cooperative, and afebrile. She had a BP of 120/70 mmHg and a pulse of 160 beats/minute. There were no signs of cardiac failure; the rest of the physical examination did not reveal any abnormal findings. She was admitted to the cardiac intensive care unit. The admission ECG showed a ventricular tachycardia at 160 cycles/minute. In the light of these typical symptoms and electrocardiographic alterations in a patient having systematic sarcoidosis, the diagnosis of sarcoidosis with cardiac involvement was suspected. The echocardiography showed a FE of 50%, bright shadows consisting with infiltration in the basal and inferoseptal ventricular myocardium, and moderate mitral regurgitation. Coronary angiography revealed normal coronary arteries. The cardiac electrophysiology study showed a monomorphic ventricular tachycardia induced by isoproterenol. Laboratory tests showed no relevant alterations in myocardial necrosis biomarkers, blood cell count, renal and liver function, or electrolytes. Given the absence of primary heart disease that would explain the cardiac abnormalities and especially the previous diagnosis of systemic sarcoidosis, the final diagnosis was sarcoidosis with cardiac involvement. The patient started with a dose of 1 mg/kg/day of corticosteroid, in addition to supportive care. Over 8 months, the steroids were tapered to a dose of 10 mg/day. Anti arrhythmic drug therapy (Amiodarone) and β blocker were initiated. Given the recurrent ventricular tachycardia with amiodarone, we proceeded to the implantation of an automated implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD). Evolution was favorable. 
RNA polymerase III antiantibodies had not been requested. The patient had been clinically stable with mild hypertension of 13.5/8.5 and a normal renal function was noted until 2008 when she was lost to follow. In 2011 the patient consulted again in dermatology department for weight loss and poor health status. The patient was put under treatment with diltiazem 60 mg / day and prednisone 40 mg / day. Four months later the patient was referred to nephrology department for height blood pressure and oliguria. On admission, BP was 230/140 mm Hg and 24 hours urine collection revealed an oliguria with 150 cc / day. Cardiovascular examination showed congestive heart failure and retinal examination disclose a stage III of hypertensive retinopathy. Dipstick urine analysis showed proteinuria of 3+ and a 2 + hematuria. 24 hours proteinuria was 3.5 g. CBC revealed a normochromic normocytic anemia with an Hb of 7g/dl, a thrombocytopenia of 99 000 /mm 3 and 2.5% schisocytes in blood smear. Renal function test was impaired with a creatinine of 156 mg /L and blood urea of 1.76 g/L. a hyperkalemia of 6.7 mEq /L and sodium of 139 mEq /L also detected. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) was 3 times elevated than normal. Renal sonography showed normal size kidneys with a poor corticomedullary differentiation. The patient was quickly gone under treatment with Nicardipine IV perfusion and hemodialysis. Later the patient was transfused and captopril 25 mg TID instituted. Prednisone started to be tapered and discontinued. After controlling of hypertension and thrombocytopenia correction, a renal needle biopsy was performed. Histopathologic examination of biopsy yield specimen showed a partial cortical hemorrhagic necrosis associated with edematous thickening of mesangium extending to the glomerular basement membrane (see Figure 4). The tubulointerstitial involvement was dominated by foci of tubular epithelial necrosis and vascular involvement marked by the presence of arteriolar thrombosis, fibrointimal proliferation and "onion skin" lesions. Case N°2 A 32 years old woman without any remarkable past medical history was hospitalized for dyspnea stage IV, low consciousness level without fever and focal neurological signs and sudden onset oliguria, five days after a normal vaginal delivery. The review of systems highlighted a diffuse arthralgia, a Raynaud's phenomenon and a thickening of fingers skin since one a year ago. Physical examination on admission showed a BP of 250/130 mm Hg, a heart rate of 110 bpm, a respiratory rate of 30 cycles /min, temperature 36.5°C, weight 45 kg, beaklike facies, sausage shape fingers and toes associated with salt and pepper hypopigmentation localized on the abdomen and back. Laboratory data revealed a severe renal insufficiency with a creatinine of 48.5mg/l, normocytic anemia to 8.1g/dl associated with thrombocytopenia 80,000 / mm 3 and positive anti-nuclear and anti-scl 70 antibodies. Ultrasonography revealed a poor corticomedullary differentiation, echogenic renal cortices without pelvicalyceal system distention. Chest x ray displayed a cardiomegaly and bilateral reticulonodulaire lesions predominantly in the lower segments of the right lung. Echocardiography showed severe pulmonary hypertension and left ventricular dysfunction. No central or peripheral vascular calcification was noticed. The patient underwent treatment with captopril and hemodialysis in the same time. The blood pressure decreased but renal functions did not improve. Renal biopsy disclosed a thrombotic microangiopathy. We could not put the patient under immunosuppressive therapy because of patient's low income. After three months of therapy with dialysis, the patient had an ischemic necrosis of the right second toe. Finally the patient was withdrawn from dialysis after a partial recovery of renal function. 
g/dl, Amylase: 1523 U/L, Lipase: 1254 U/L, Wbc: 5060 mm 3, Hct: 38.4%, Platelet:109.000 mm 3 Prothrombrin time: 14 sec, AFP:4.1 ng/mL and HbsAg: positive. In his abdominal ultrasonography (USG) and portal vein doppler USG, the liver had a cirrhotic appearance and splenomegaly was found. His gastroscopy revealed grade III esophageal varicosis. His dynamic contrasted abdominal magnetic resonance (MR) showed intrahepatic bile ducts dillated, choledoch normal, acute pancreatitis and in fourth segment of the left lobe of the liver a mass without typical wash-out but intense contrast in the arterial phase with a size of 10x8 cm and his MR angiography showed thrombus on the portal vein left branch. The result of mass biopsy was reported as focal nodular hyperplasia. Tenofovir was started and his endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) showed a mass with a diameter of 10 cm and thrombus on the portal vein in the left lobe of the liver. Biopsy was taken from the thrombus with 25 G FNA needle. The biopsy showed big irregular atypical cells in groups some of which were distributed alone and in some places looked like trabecular structures and he was diagnosed as HCC. The patient underwent radiofrequency embolisation and he was taken under control. Case 2 50-year-old male patient. The patient had been receiving antiviral treatment for 13 years with a diagnosis of chronic hepatitis B and he was under control. Five years ago, a mass with a diameter of 2 cm was found in the eighth segment of the liver. The patient was operated and his pathology was reported as HCC. The patient who developed abdominal pain in his follow-ups was hospitalized. The patient had no peculiarity in his anamnesis and family history. He had been using tenofovir 245 mg/day and had been smoking for 10 package/years. His physical examination was normal. His laboratory findings were as follows: Glucose: 86 mg/dl, Creatinine: 0.9 mg/dl, AST: 92 U/L, ALT: 89 U/L, ALP: 139 U/L, GGT: 386 U/L, LDH:162 U/L, Total bilirubin: 6.3 mg/dl, Conjugated bilirubin: 6.0 mg/dl, Albumin:3.2 g/dl, Wbc: 5060 mm 3, Hct: 38.4%, Platelet:109.000 mm 3, Prothrombrin time: 14 sec, AFP:4.1 ng/mL and HbsAg: positive, HBV DNA: negative. His abdominal tomography (AT) showed a solid mass with a regular contour in the left lobe of the liver next to the lateral segment anterior. The mass had extrahepatic location, it had a size of 80x52 mm, it had a heterogeneous inner structure, it had intense contrast at arterial phase but it did not have typical wash-out. AT angiography showed thrombus at the portal vein left branch. The patient underwent EUS and biopsy was taken from the mass on the left lobe of the liver with 22 G needle and FNA biopsy was taken from the thrombus on the portal vein with 25G needle. The biopsy results of both the mass in the liver and the thrombus were HCC. The patient underwent radiofrequency embolisation and he was taken under control. Case 3 77-year-old male patient. The patient was diagnosed with chronic hepatitis B four years ago and started lamivudin 100 mg/day. The patient who did not come to his controls was hospitalized with complaints of swellings on the legs, asthenia and pain in joints. The patient had no peculiarity in his anamnesis and family history and he was not smoking or drinking. His physical examination revealed faintness, moderate edema, 2 cm splenomegaly and arthritis on the left toe and left ankle. His laboratory findings were as follows: Glucose: 86 mg/dl, Creatinine: 0.7 mg/dl, AST: 81 U/L, ALT: 95 U/L, ALP: 56 U/L, GGT: 28 U/L, LDH:217 U/L, Total bilirubin: 0.8 mg/dl, Conjugated bilirubin: 0.5 mg/dl,Albumin:3.3g/dl,Wbc:4550mm 3, Hct: 30.2%, Platelet:213.000mm 3, Prothrombrin time: 18 sec, AFP:1.1 ng/mL and HbsAg: positive, HBV DNA: 1.270.000 IU, Anti delta total (+) and HDV RNA (-). His abdominal MR showed cirrhotic liver, a mass lesion with a size of 70x45 mm on the seventh segment of the right lobe. T1A examination showed that the central of the mass lesion was hyperintense, its periphery was hypointense; postcontrasted examination showed that it did not show an obvious contrast but it showed diffusion limits. In the eighth segment of the right lobe of the liver, a centrally located 25x20 mm lesion was seen which extended to the inferior vena cava and caused tumor thrombus in the vena cava. EUS showed masses with diameters of 7 cm and 2 cm on the seventh and eighth segments of the liver and thrombus that extended to the vena cava inferior. Biopsy was taken from the thrombus with 25 G FNA needle. Biopsy result showed HCC. The patient underwent radiofrequency embolisation and he was taken under control. 
He has no history of addiction or alcohol consumption. The assessment of his cognitive function was normal. Genetic study cannot be realized because the unavailability of appropriate techniques in Tunisia. 
He was described as an, emotionally cold person, and known for an increased interest for studies relative to leisure. Two years ago, suddenly and without triggering factor, the patient developed soliloquy, verbal aggressiveness to his parents, persecution, mystical talk and sleep disturbance. The physical examination found a patient moving in a wheelchair, having regard to functional impairment secondary to the severity of extrapyramidal syndrome in his limbs. His conscience was clear, without any confusion. There was rotatory nystagmus and dystonia of the hands and feet. 
The psychiatric examination revealed, a young white man unable to maintain good contact, but who appeared anxious and suspicious. His speech is poor in content, barely understandable because of dysarthria. He reports a fuzzy; non systematized delusion: He was convinced that he was the prophet "Noah" and was charged with a divine mission: to change the world functioning. He is persecuted by strangers who collaborate with his parents to kill him. He experienced auditory and visual hallucinations. 
Specialized neurological examination did not showed any clinical worsening. The physical examination was normal. 
Investigations included routine blood tests (CBC, blood sedimentation reaction (BSR), liver and renal function assessments, serum electrolytes, an electroencephalogram, which were normal. MRI showed signal abnormalities in the central gray nucleus (basal ganglia) which was similar to those observed in the MRI practiced five years ago. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood lactate levels were normal. We prescribed amisulpiride in small doses (300mg/day) combined with a benzodiazepine (Lorazépam: 7,5 mg/day) and a corrector of extrapyramidal effects (biperiden hydrochloride). The use of higher doses of antipsychotic had led to as significant exacerbation of side effects. The partial remission could be observed under these doses, but quickly followed by a relapse during treatment, after 4 months, with exacerbation of positive symptoms and appearance of bizarre behavior. 
This relapse had necessitated a switch to aripiprazole at a dose of 30 mg / day achieved gradually. This drug was well tolerated, and any neurological deterioration was found. This fact allowed us to decrease and stop antiparkinsonian drugs (L-Dopa and biperiden hydrochloride). 
But we opted, after 6 weeks of treatment, for the addition of valproic acid (1500 mg/day) and clonazepam (4mg/day) such as a strategy of potentiating, given the persistence of positive symptoms, the anxiety and behavioral corollaries, such as distrust of his parents, the refusal of any food prepared by them, and insomnia. 
Clinical improvement was very partial to afford acceptable interfamily adaptation, after 6 months of treatment. A third switch to olanzapine at a dose of 15 mg / day was made, while maintaining of valproic acid and clonazepam. This combination allowed a partial remission, allowing a best level of adaptation, it has been maintained. The clozapine has not been tried in this case. 
However, after 24 hours she was seen to be deteriorating with confusion and decreased conscious level so was transferred to our unit, the referral hospital for the region. 
Here an intern doctor assessed her and made a provisional diagnosis of sepsis of unknown origin and started the patient on broad-spectrum intravenous (IV) antibiotics and fluids. At this stage no observations were recorded and no formal scale was used to assess her conscious level, although it was commented on that she "unresponsive". Again, no documentation was made as to whether she was given the treatment prescribed. 
The following morning she was reviewed by the author, now more than 48 hours since delivery. The patient's observations were pulse rate 110 beats per minute, respiratory rate 50 breaths per minute, blood pressure 110/75 mmHg and oxygen saturations were 82% on air. No temperature was recorded as no thermometer was available in the unit. She appeared clinically dehydrated, with concentrated urine, and her GCS was 7. On examination the chest had bilateral basal crepitations, heart sounds were normal and there was a distended abdomen. On vaginal examination there was minimal lochia and it was non-offensive. She was given oxygen therapy at the highest concentration available (4L/min via nasal prongs) and saturations improved to 92%. The patient was given IV antibiotics, 2 litres of IV normal saline and a decision was made to perform an abdominal ultrasound scan. This was done quickly and the only positive findings were of significant free fluid/haemoperitoneum. At this point the diagnosis was sepsis with possible uterine rupture. A decision was made for exploratory laparotomy. A sub-umbilical midline incision was performed and at laparotomy there were findings of 2-3L of blood stained ascites, sloughy exudate all over the intra-abdominal organs, and a posterior uterine rupture in a transverse direction approximately 7cm in width. The site of the rupture was very low 1-2cm above the internal os of the cervix, although it had not extended into the cervix, vagina or laterally. In view of the viability of the uterine tissue and site of rupture a sub-total hysterectomy was performed and the abdomen washed-out and closed. In the following 24 hours the patient's condition continued to deteriorate and although her urine output improved with the IV fluids, her conscious level did not improve, and in-fact deteriorated to a GCS of 5 and then 3. Treatment was mainly palliative from then on and the patient died a few days later. 
The patient had a medical history of limited cutanous systemic sclerosis diagnosed by an internal medicine specialist since 3 years and treated by methotrexate, colchicine, amlodipine, methylprednisolone, cholecalciferol, sulodexide, acidumfolicum and Lysinacetylsalicylas. The TMJ and muscle symptoms was noted since 1 year after her diagnosis. These symptoms have slowly worsened prompting the patient to run our specializing consultation. Physical examination of the patient revealed that SSc affected mainly her hands with a fingers movementlimitation, associated with sclerodactyly complicated by digital ulcers, moderate lung fibrosis with a flexion contracture and a claw-like deformity. 
The clinical examination of the orofacial region revealed a masklike facies with a smooth and tight facial skin with a loss of normal animation lines and a bilateral stiffness in masticatory muscles at palpation and movements. The mouth opening was limited to 23 mm and the mandible deviated to the right side. The other mandibular movements such as propulsion and deductionare also restricted. The palpation of TMJ region causes severe pain more pronounced in the right side and a restricted condylar movement. No joint sounds and no malocclusion are depicted Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), in open-and closed-mouth positions, was performed to evaluate the TMJ and to check an eventual masticatory muscles fibrosis. The MRI showed internal derangement of TMJ, bilateral mandibular condylar process resorption, and disk deformations with heterogeneous appearance. The bilateral mandibular condylar process containssubchondral geodes and thinned cortical on sagittal and coronal views of MRI and hypomobility in open mouth. There was no fibrosis in masticatory muscles. The diagnosis of temporomandibular disorder (TMD) with arthralgia and myalgia related to SSc was made. The patient was treated by an association of conservative techniques including rest, reassurance and jaw-opening exercises for painful joint. A myorelaxant was prescribed for 10 days to managing myofascial pain and aphysical therapy was indicated for 6 months including massage treatment on the bilateral masseter and temporal muscles, exercises, ultrasound, for improve jaw movements, managing musculoskeletal and myofacial pain. The patient was regularly reviewed monthly to evaluate pain and jaw movements. A great improvement in TMD symptoms was reported. After 2 months of physical therapy, the mouth opening increased from 23 to 33 mm and a reduction in muscle pain was noted. The preauricular and muscle pain was gradually disappeared. The muscle flexibility has been partially improved by physiotherapy. However, a certain rigidity in the area of masseter muscles is still, due to its SSc and skin fibrosis. A relaxant nocturnal occlusal appliance was indicated to stabilize the resultsand was very supported by the patient. 
Past medical history revealed that patient was hypertensive and diabetic since 5 and 4 years respectively and currently on medication. Past dental history and supportive investigations revealed that patient underwent check up 4 years ago at a ENT doctor where it was provisionally diagnosed as a case of Nasal myiasis, surgical debridement of the lesion was done and maggots were retrieved. Plain and contrast computed tomography of brain revealed a sharply defined, mildly hyperdense space occuping lesion of 24 x 19 mm in left temporal region and effaced sulcal spaces which showed mild enhancement on contrast with mild hyperostosis with widening of diploic spaces of greater wing of sphenoid bones which was suggestive of a meningioma. Following which patient was admitted at a Private dental hospital, treatment protocol was informed to the patient and after obtaining informed consent from the patient, he was posted for surgery under general anesthesia. Maxillectomy on the left side was done, after 2 months of regular debridements and obtaining sterile cultures from the surgical wound, acrylic palatal obturator was fabricated making alginate impressions. 
Extra oral examination revealed a gross facial asymmetry with sunken appearance with loss of normal nasolabial fold on the left side of the face. TMJ and lymph nodes examination showed no abnormality. Intra oral examination showed a surgical defect in relation to the left maxillary quadrant with well defined borders. The depth of the lesion showed a grayish black necrotic pseudo membranous slough with yellowish areas interspersed all over. Other intra oral findings were multiple missing teeth in left and right maxilla and periodontally compromised mandibular teeth. 
Based on the past history and intra oral examination, a provisional diagnosis of osteomyelitis of the surgical defect was given. Other lesions such as Tuberculosis, Squamous cell carcinoma, Tertiary syphilis, fungal infections such as Aspergillosis and Mucormycosis were considered. Radiologic investigations of Panaromic radiograph and computed tomography were advised. Panaromic radiograph revealed multiple missing teeth (12 11 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 37) and huge surgical defect in favor of left maxillectomy. Paranasal sinus radiograph view showed radiolucency which is diffuse, with irregular borders involving the left maxillary antrum and deviated nasal spine and changes in favor of left maxillectomy. Computed axial tomography revealed in favor of post operative left maxillectomy, deviated nasal spine to right, left ethmoidal and sphenoidal sinusitis. Changes seen involving left pterygoid plates and posterior wall of maxillary antrum suggestive of residual changes of Osteomyelitis. 
Biochemical investigations such as complete blood picture, serum creatinine were within normal limits with increased Erythrocyte sedimentation rate and Glycoslyated hemoglobin was 9.2% suggestive of diabetes mellitus. Incisional biopsy was done and the specimen was obtained from the left maxillary antrum through endoscope under local anesthesia and was sent to Culture sensitivity tests which showed positivity for bacterial and fungal growth on KOH culture media. 
The specimen was further sent for Periodic acid Schiff staining which showed large non septate fungal hyphae branched at right angles. The specimen was sent for histopathological examination which showed cellular connective tissue stroma composed of mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate predominantly neutrophils and lymphocytes, numerous large non septate fungal hyphae branching at right angle along with few areas of necrosis. There is presence of ciliated columnar epithelium along with few bony trabaculae and extensive areas of hemorrhage along with super added bacterial infection suggestive of “mucormycosis. 
Correlating clinically, radiologically and histologically a final diagnosis of CHRONIC OSTEOMYEILITIS WITH MUCORMYCOSIS was given. Our patient underwent extensive unilateral endoscopic nasosinusal surgery with debridement of left maxillary sinus,anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells and extensive removal of invaded mucosa under general anesthesia. Extensive fungal masses and necrotic slough were excised from left maxillary and sphenoidal sinus. Necrotic mucosa was removed till the healthy margins were visible which showed initial signs of bleeding. Liposomal Amphotericin B (5 mg/kg) was started immediately after the surgery and dosage was increased to (7.5 mg/kg) after 3 weeks. A week later patient underwent hyperbaric oxygen therapy for 21 dives, each session lasting for 150 min along with systemic delivery of antifungal drugs orally for time period of 4 weeks. Post operative visit of the patient showed negative cultures with no morbidity and patient was delivered an acrylic obturator with soft liners. 
The third was fracture of the left humerus, sustained while rehabilitating with a walking frame after surgery for the left femoral and right humeral fractures. The forth was a combination of right femoral and tibia fractures sustained simultaneously while bearing weight on the right lower limb as the leading limb to board a vehicle. Hyperparathyroidism was considered upon the forth occasion. The history of weakness, generalized bone and joint pains preceded the first episode of fracture by about 1 year. He also had production of cloudy urine and history of epigastric pain diagnosed informally as gastritis from chronic ingestion of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory He had previously had open reduction and internal fixation for the initial two fractures under general anesthesia He sustained mandibular fracture at intubation. He had been transfused 6 pints of blood on separate occasions. His genotype was AS, he was neither hypertensive nor diabetic. He was on chronic ingestion of calcium and vitamin D supplements. There was no history suggestive of associated thyroid disease and no family history suggestive of multiple endocrine neoplastic syndrome or primary hyperparathryrodism. At first consultation by the general surgeon, physical examination revealed a young man, conscious and alert, in pains, wasted, with a global reduction in muscle bulk. There was frontal bursing and multiple bony swellings on the lower jaw, there was no clinical obvious neck mass. There were healed scars on the right arm and left thigh with reduced range of movement at both shoulders and both hip joints. On the right lower limb, the junction between the upper and middle third of the thigh was swollen, abnormally positioned and tender. There was midshaft swelling of the leg on the same limb, the swelling was soft and tender. There were no bruises or abrasions, and no external bleeding. Serum calcium and alkaline phosphatase were markedly elevated (3.17mmol/l and 260 I.U/l respectively). All other electrolytes and haemogram were within normal limits. Scouting X-rays revealed evidence of healed and healing fractures of the jaw and ribs in addition to the clinically obvious long bone fractures. Urinalysis showed 2+ haematuria. Neck ultrasound revealed an enlarged left lower parathyroid gland and the abdominal ultrasound scan showed multiple kidney stones. The serum parathyroid hormone level was 202.8 pmol/l (normal is 1.6-6.9 pmol/l). 99mTc Sestamibi parathyroid scintigraphy revealed an increased focal uptake.. He subsequently had excision of the parathyroid mass (left inferior parathyroid) under cervical block and minimal sedation. The mass was grayish-black, measuring 7 by 4cm and weighed 32g. Histology revealed a parathyroid adenoma. Postoperatively he had sudden and persistent symptomatic drop in serum calcium necessitating continuous infusion of calcium gluconate. He is currently 15 months post-surgery, he is being rehabilitated as an outpatient, he is pain free, more mobile and the serum calcium has remained normal. 
The diagnosis ofmitral valve IE was confirmed by transoesophageal echocardiography (TEE); there was no annular abscess. The results of laboratory tests are shown as follows: the white blood cell count was 14,500 mm 3, hemoglobin concentration 9.3 g/l, creatinine 92 μmol/l and C-reactive protein 123 mg/dl. Computed topographics can of the head revealed no abnormalities. Initial blood cultures grew staphylococcus aureus. Antibiotic treatment with Oxacillin + gentamicin was started. His symptoms improved within 72 hours later. Four days after admission, he felt a sudden onset of substernal chest pain. His ECG showed ST segment elevation in leads V 3 V 4, and emergency echocardiography revealed the disappearance of vegetation on the mitral valve. The coronary angiography noted a complete occlusion of the distal tract of the LAD artery, while the remaining coronary arteries were completely free from any stenosis/atherosclerotic lesion. After aspiration of the thrombus, the distal LAD occlusion resolved with restoration of TIMI flow grade 3. His complaints and ECG changes improved after the procedure, and he was discharged after the completion of 6 weeks of antibiotic treatment. 2 nd case A 72-year-old man, with a history of rheumatic heart disease, presented with a 2-month history of fever and lethargy. His coronary risk factors were age and hypertension. 
Laboratory tests revealed significant inflammatory syndrome (CRP=178 mg/l) and anemia (hemoglobin=10.1 g/dl). Renal function was correct. Sensitive Staphylococcus aureus was isolated fromperipheral blood cultures. Transthoracic echocardiography showed a large circumferential periaortic abscess, and a doppler revealed moderate aortic regurgitation. TEE confirmed the same data \(Figure 3). The patientwas diagnosed withIE, and treated with intravenous flucloxacillin and gentamicin. Computed tomographic scan of the head showed no abnormalities, and abdominal computed tomography scan found a mycotic aneurysm of a branch of the superior mesenteric artery measuring 13 mm. Three days after admission, the patient complained of worsening chest pain. The electrocardiogram showed significant anterior ST depression, and troponin I level rose to 5.3 ng/ml. Emergency coronary angiography noted an area of narrowing of the left main and LAD arteries. The patient was transferred to the cardiac surgery for further management. Emergency surgery confirmed a large aortic root abscess compressing the left main and LAD arteries. The patient underwent an obliteration of the abscess cavity, aortic valve replacementwith a bioprosthesis, annulus reconstruction using pericardium, and a single aortocoronary bypass graft using the left internal mammary artery. There was considerable difficulty in weaning the patient of by-pass, and despite intra-aortic balloon pumping, high dose catecholamine support and antibiotics, the patient died after 48h. 
There were no Babinski sign and no systemic signs. Laboratory tests showed increased CPK level (20,591 IU/L), positive C-reactive protein (15 mg/l) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (13 at the first hour). The dosage of anti-parietal cell and anti-SRP antibodies were positives while the dosage of anti-JO1 and antinuclear antibodies were negatives except the insignificant presence of anti-SSA antibodies. Infectious serologies (HIV 1 and 2, HTLV 1 and 2, hepatitis A, hepatitis C, trichinosis, syphilis, Lyme, streptococci, Coxsackie virus, Echovirus) were negatives. We noted the presence of toxoplasmosis IgG (0.1 IU/ml) but no IgM. Epstein Barr virus serology revealed previous infection and we related the presence of anti-HBs antibodies (402 IU/l) to a previous immunization. The endocrine tests were normal (TSH, ACTH, estradiol, IGF1, prolactin, FSH, LH). The standard short synacthen test was negative. Cardiac ultrasound performed on the 17th September was normal. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of the pelvis and thighs showed hypersignal of pelvis and thighs muscles indicate an inflammatory myopathy. The electromyogram showed pure myogenic pattern. We performed a surgical muscle biopsy at the left thigh which revealed muscular alterations related to inflammatory myopathy. The diagnosis of anti-SRP antibody myopathy was done. Following the worsening of the muscle weakness, the patient was readmitted on the 05th September. Laboratory tests showed persistent high CPK level (18721 IU/L), elevated transaminases with AST (about 10 times) and ALT (167 IU/l), normal serum electrolytes, positive C - reactive protein (15 mg/l) and increased fibrinogen level (4.37). She received a treatment based on Methylprednisolone at initial dose of 500 mg and two others doses of 250 mg and Intravenous Immunoglobulin to 2g/kg/treatment. The treatment was well tolerated clinically and biologically (post-Intravenous Immunoglobulin CPK level was 7435 IU/l) but there were no regression of the muscle weakness. She has been discharged on the 12th October with corticosteroid and associated treatment. Observation 2: Ms. N.C. Senegalese 35 year old (in 2016) with past history of anti-SRP antibody myopathy diagnosed in 2012 and normal delivery. She was hospitalized from the 10th to 29th April 2015 for a muscle pain and weakness of the lower limbs started 5 months prior to hospitalization. Indeed seven months after the delivery, she has been re admitted for a muscle pain and weakness of the lower limbs leading to sleep deprivation. She has stopped the treatment during pregnancy without significant change. Clinical exam found muscle paresis of both lower limbs with muscular strength quoted at 1/5 proximally and 4/5 distally. The knee jerk, ankle jerk reflexes and idiomuscular response were absents bilaterally as well as the Babinski sign. Laboratory tests had showed high CPK level (17,651 IU/l), elevated transaminases with AST (about 10 times) and (ALT 140 IU/l), positive C-reactive protein (36mg/l), low creatinine level (75 mg/dL) and normal serum electrolyte. Controlled laboratory tests done in January 2013 showed: very high CPK level (12,750 IU/l) with positive C-reactive protein 36 mg/l and erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 26 at first hour. The dosage of anti-SRP antibodies was positive while antinuclear antibodies and anti-JO1 antibodies were negative. Infectious serologies (HIV 1, 2, hepatitis B) were negative. The hormonal tests were normal (TSH, ACTH, prolactin, FSH, LH) as well as cardiac ultrasound. The electromyogram showed a pure myogenic pattern. She received Solumedrol with initial dose of 500 mg and two others doses of 250 mg. The treatment has been well tolerated clinically and biologically, without muscle paresis improvement. She has been discharged on corticosteroid and associated treatment. 
Reflexes were exaggerated on lower limbs. Local examination of the spine could find tenderness in the right paravertebral area on T12-L1 level, related to a subcutaneous fixed mass. 
Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the spine were performed. Findings were compatible with multiple metastases, and involved:. The posterior part of the vertebral body of T5, with posterior wall rupture; the posterior elements of T12 and L1 vertebras, with a tissular mass causing bone lysis, severe cord compression and extending to the paravertebral region; the vertebral body was intact. Vertebral body of S1, withlysis, right spinal canal invasion and extension to the pre-vertebral area
These lesions were iso-to hypo-intense to bone on T1 weighted images, and heterogeneous on T2 weighted images with multiple hyperintense foci. Contrast enhancement was intense and also heterogeneous, and was extending vertically along the epidural space of the medial lesion. On CT scan, bone lysis was observed. 
Computed tomography of brain, cervical, thoracic, abdominal and pelvian regions, and also systemic investigations were all negative for a primary tumoral lesion. 
The patient was proposed for a posterior decompression on T12-L1 level with instrumented fixation -as symptoms were mainly related to it-and also a sacral decompression. 
In the dorsolumbar area, the tumor was immediately found under the subcutaneous tissue, invading the paravertebral muscles: A multi-lobulated firm mass, with a white-reddish appearance, mainly avascular. The tumor was not encapsulated but could easily be differentiated and separated from thesurrounding tissue. The bone lysis was evident, and the spinal cord compression severe. The dura matter was not infiltrated. Dural decompression was completed and T11-L2 screw fixation was performed - given the pedicle lysis on CT-scans - after gross total removal was achieved. Taking advantage of the patient’s position, and given the history of lombosacral radiculopathy, an S1 right hemilaminectomy with curettage of the sacral body and radicular decompression were also performed. Operative findings were compatible with the upper level. 
Histology specimens were analyzed for both localizations, with an identical result: a malignant spindle cell proliferation with large necrotic areas. Tumor cells were arranged into short fascicles and interlacing bundles. The nuclei were hyperchromatic and occasionally highly pleiomorphic. Mitotic figures were recognized in about 15 per 10 high power fields. Large necrotic areas were observed (about 50% of the tumor surface). Immunohistochemical staining was positive for smooth muscle actin, desmin and H-caldesmon, and negative for S100 protein, and CD34. Focal reactivity was observed with EMA. Thus, the diagnosis of a leiomyosarcoma grade 3 of the FNCLCC was established. 
In the postoperative period, the patient started improving her motor score, and gaining control on her urinary function. She was discharged on both rehabilitation unit and oncology unit for adjuvant therapy. 
One month after discharge, the patient presented for persistent headaches, with no focal signs. Locally, we could find tenderness on the right frontal area of the skull convexity. CT scan was performed, showing a small lytic frontal bone lesion extending to the subcutaneous tissue withoutdural extension. A small craniectomy around was performed, and the histopathology came back with no surprise. 
At one year follow up, the adjuvant therapy failed to obtain tumor control. The thoracic and abdominopelvian CT scan showed both local and systemic progression. Although her motor function improved continuosly to become self dependant, her general condition was worsening. She was then assessed for palliative treatment. The patient died two years after her initial management. 
Its origins were unclear. There was no free fluid seen on ultrasound. The patient was otherwise afebrile and hemodynamically stable. She had normal full blood count, urea and electrolytes, liver function tests and pregnancy was negative. She was admitted to the ward on analgesia and an abdomino-pelvic CT scan was performed the next day, which showed a sausage like cystic mass extending from the pelvis up to the hepatic flexure of the colon with the cecum displaced and ante-flexed over the ascending colon. There were no liver lesions or lymphadenopathy noted. The length of the mass was 17.27 cm and the maximum diameter was 5.28cm. There was no free fluid in the abdomen. An impression of appendiceal mucocele was made after the surgeon and the radiologist carefully analysed the CT scan. A semi-elective right hemi-colectomy was planned. Intraoperative findings: a distended massive appendix pushing the redundant cecal end up to the hepatic flexure of the colon and the tip of the appendix into the right iliac fossa was found. Exploration of the abdomen revealed no metastatic processes, no lymphadenopathy and no other malignancies. The pelvic organs were all normal. There was no leak of appendicular contents and the appendix was not adherent to surrounding structures. The distended appendix was isolated carefully and delivered from the abdomen. A right hemicolectomy was performed making sure not to rupture the appendix or cause any leakage of its contents. A stapled functional end-to-end ileo-colic anastomosis was performed. The patient recovery was uneventful and was discharged day 6 post-operation. She was seen at the outpatient clinic 6 weeks later and had uneventful postoperative course. Histology results revealed a low-grade appendicular mucinous neoplasm with negative margins and no involved mesenteric lymph nodes. 
Histopathology report *All slide sections are stained with Haematoxylin & Eosin (H/E) X50: low power viewing) : the appendiceal wall shows a flattened and misplaced epithelium (on top) as well as marked fibrosis surrounding a focus of dystrophic calcification (blue stained material in the centre of the image)
X100 and x400: medium and high power viewing) : the appendiceal wall shows an intestinal type covering epithelium (right side) comprising of crowded columnar cells with basal, hyperchromatic nuclei and large amounts of apical mucin as well as minimal dysplastic changes. Marked fibrosis beneath the epithelial lining is readily apparent. *Fibrosis and chronic inflammation are secondary changes due to luminal compression in a long-standing disease. 
The cardiothoracic surgeon offered open commissurotomy as percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty (PBV) was not available. She declined the in view of the procedure related risks. At 20 weeks gestation she was commenced on propranolol to treat a persistent tachycardia and prophylactic warfarin. She was switched from warfarin to low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) at 36 weeks gestation. At 38 weeks, an echocardiogram showed an MVA of 0.9cm 2 and EF of 58%. Her functional status was New York Heart Association (NYHA) class II. The estimated foetal weight (EFW) was 1950g, with normal middle cerebral artery (MCA) and umbilical artery (UA) flow. In order to time the required lapse period between last dose of LMWH and the epidural procedure, she had elective induction of labour. She developed foetal bradycardia 6 hours after initiating induction. An emergency caesarean section was done under general anaesthesia as the epidural catheter which had been timed for established labour had not yet been inserted. She was given frusemide and antibiotics peri-partum. A 2020g live baby was delivered. She was discharged from hospital on day 7 on warfarin and was stable when reviewed by both physician and obstetrician 14 days postpartum. She was admitted to the Coronary Care Unit 4 weeks postpartum with shortness of breath, severe supraventricular tachycardia and hypotension and died 3 days later. Case 2 : mrs. B is a 28 years old who presented at 10 weeks gestation. She was known to have RHD and was on warfarin for a mechanical mitral valve. The pregnancy had been planned against advice from her gynaecologist and cardiologist. She was asymptomatic (NYHA class I). She was started on folic acid 5mg daily. Her INR was within therapeutic range. At 20 weeks, a foetal anomaly scan showed severely dilated cerebral ventricles dangling choroid plexus, lemon shaped head. The inter-hemispheric fissure was present and there was no identifiable cortical brain tissue. The facial anatomy was normal. There was a discordant growth pattern with the bi-parietal diameter corresponding to 24 weeks, head circumference to 23 weeks but abdominal circumference and femur length both to 19 weeks. A repeat scan by a radiologist showed "evidence of a well formed cranium but with severe hydraencephaly with replacement of supratentorial brain parenchyma by cerebro-spinal fluid. There was mild preservation of posterior fossa structures with ventricles not easily describable." In the opinion of both the sonographer and the radiologist the findings were not compatible with extra-uterine life. The couple was informed and termination of the pregnancy (TOP) was done. Her INR was 2.3. She expelled the conceptus complete within 24hrs of induction. There was no excessive bleeding and she was discharged in a stable condition. Copper T intrauterine contraceptive device (Cu-IUCD) was offered. 
His pulse rate was 118 per minute, which was regular and of normal volume. Heart sounds 1 and 2 were heard on auscultation, with no murmurs. He had clear lung fields with good air entry bilaterally. There were no significant findings on abdominal examination, and he had normal external male genitalia. A facial examination showed he had a coarse facial appearance with a flat nasal bridge, hypertelorism, low set microtic ears with protruding ear lobules and a short upturned nose. He had an inter-incisal distance of about 13mm at maximal mouth opening. He had a back swelling measuring about 15cm by 25cm in the lower sacral region, which was sessile, not tender and had no differential warmth. It had an irregular surface, it was soft and had none distinct edges. The swelling had no underlying bony defect, and no pelvic extension was noted on digital rectal examination. His limbs were normal and his serum alpha-fetoprotein level was 31mcg/L (normal 0-5mcg/L). A two dimensional transthoracic echocardiography was done, which showed situs solitus of the atria and viscera, with atrioventricular and ventriculoarterial concordance. The mitral, tricuspid, pulmonary and aortic valves were normal, and chamber walls showed good contractility. There was no atrial septal defect (ASD), patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) nor ventricular septal defect (VSD) seen. A thick band of echogenic tissue separating the right atrium into 2 unequal halves with a wide eccentric aperture communicating both chambers was seen. Abdomino-pelvic ultrsonography showed normal right and left kidneys. Based on his clinical features and investigation results, a diagnosis of Schinzel-Giedion syndrome with sacrococcygeal teratoma (SCT) and an asymptomatic cor-triatriatum dexter was made. Genetic analysis was however not done in this patient, as we currently do not have facilities for such a test in our hospital. Due to the documented risk of malignancy in embryonic tumors in SGS [2, 3, 6], a decision for an early excision of the sacrococcygeal mass was made. At induction of anaesthesia, difficulties were encountered at attempts to pass an endotracheal tube due to the inability to open the patient’s mouth wide enough for the placement of a laryngoscope. Bilateral congenital temporo-mandibular joint (TMJ) ankylosis was diagnosed, and attempts at endotracheal intubation were abandoned. Since we did not have facilities for fibre optic laryngeal intubation, a laryngeal mask airway (LMA) was inserted and naso-gastric intubation for gastric decompression done. The procedure of SCT excision was performed with the patient in the left lateral position; instead of the conventional prone jack-knife position. His post-operative recovery was uneventful and he was discharged to the outpatient clinic for follow up on the tenth day post operation. The histopathology report of the excised tumour showed a solid mass lined externally by unremarkable epidermis. The parenchyma demonstrated smooth and skeletal muscles, adipose tissues, cartilage and glandular tissue with no malignant foci. During his first follow up visit by the third week post operation, he was referred to the Maxillofacial surgery unit on account of his TMJ ankylosis. He was however subsequently lost to follow up. 
Furthermore there was a leptomeningeal spread not only intracranially but in the spinal canal as well. The patient underwent two operation procedures. Firstly, a ventriculo-peritoneal shunt (Medtronic PS Medical) was placed to deal with hydrocephalus and then a radical resection of the tumor was performed; nevertheless, some small tumor remnants were left behind because they could not be safely removed. The postoperative period was complicated with prolonged stay in the pediatric intensive care unit due to postoperative neurological deterioration. During his stay in the ICU the patient experienced an episode of cardiac arrest and a permanent internal defibrillator was implanted through the right subclavian vein. Finally he was discharged from the neurosurgical department with severe left hemiparesis and he was further treated with high-dose chemotherapy. In the following years he underwent four revision surgeries, which included several revisions of the distal part and the introduction of a new proximal catheter at the opposite lateral ventricle, due to VP malfunction caused by peritoneal malabsorption. 
In the last operation, the distal catheter was implanted to the right internal jugular vein. At the age of 4 years old the child presented to the emergency department with deteriorating level of consciousness and vomiting. The shunt was tapped and demonstrated increased pressure with good proximal flow and absence of distal runoff. A computer tomography (CT) scan revealed ventricles dilatation and periventricular edema Figure 1. Moreover an ultrasound imaging of the neck veins revealed bilateral internal jugular vein thrombosis. 
Due to lack of alternative solutions, a decision was made to implant the distal catheter in the right atrium through the left subclavian vein with the help of the interventional cardiologist of the hospital. The peripheral catheter was introduced percutaneously using the Seldinger technique. Tunneling was done up to the clavicle region and a stab wound was performed at the puncture site. The subclavian vein was punctured using a 21 G needle and a 0,018" guide wire was introduced. Through that, a 4-French sheath was introduced and the wire was withdrawn. Afterwards, a new guide wire 0,035" was introduced and the sheath was also withdrawn. In order to achieve gradual vein dilation and to avoid injury of the vessel two consecutive sheaths of 6 and 7 French accordingly were used. The latter was a peel-away sheath Figure 2. The wire and the introducer were withdrawn and the distal catheter was introduced through the peel away dilator Figure 3. Placement of the catheter in the right atrium was confirmed with an intra-operative x-ray with the C-arm. The dilator was peeled away and the wound was closed in a standard manner. The patient made an uneventful recovery with no post-operative complications and he was discharged free of symptoms of increased intracranial pressure a few days later. At one year follow-up the child is without symptoms of hydrocephalus and the CT scan shows a normal ventricular system with both catheters in place Figure 4. 
Furthermore the boy presented a progressive abdominal distension since birth, progressive pallor and recurrent episodes of fever since 1 year of age. There was history of blood transfusions for last 2 months. On the other side there was no history of jaundice, vomiting, urinary or bowel complaints, bleeding from any site or neurological complaints. On admission, he was very pale with silvery gray scalp hair, white eyelashes, he was hypotonic, tachycardic, fever of 40°C, lymphoadenopathy and hepato-splenomegaly. The blood count showed pancytopenia; 1980 white blood cells/µL (VN 4000-13 500/µL), neutrophils 820/µL, 910 cells/µL, hemoglobin (Hb) 6.3 g/dL (11.5-14 VN, 5 g/dL), platelets 44 000/µL (VN 150 000-400 000/µL), There were no giant cytoplasmic granules in leucocytes. The liver function tests were normal expect low albumin (2.1 mg/dL) and increased alkaline phosphatase (1196 mg/dL) with low fibrinogen (1.7g/l). Serum triglycerides, ferrintin and lactic dehydrogenase were very high; respectively 4.75g/L; 2763µg/L and 597U/L. the C reactive protein (CRP) was elevated at 83mg/ l. A chest X-ray was normal while the abdominal ultrasound showed a hepatomegaly and a splenomegaly, free biliary ducts without ascites. Because of hepato-splenomegaly, pancytopenia, hyperferritinemia and hypofibrinogenemia the diagnosis of Macrophage activation syndrome was evoked indicating a bone marrow aspiration that showed numerous morphologically benign macrophages with haemophagocytic activity that comforting the diagnosis of a SAM according to Ravelli and HLH-2004 criteria Table 1. Blood culture, urine examination, malarial serology, Kala Azar serology, viral serologies such as EBV, hepatitis A, B, C and human immunodeficiency virus HIV, serologies of rickettsia, syphilis and toxoplasmosa were negatives. Serologies of CMV and rubella showed an old immunization. The immunological tests such as antinuclear antibodies (ANA), anti-LKM1, anti-mitochondria and anti-smooth muscle antibodies were negatives. Because of the consanguineous family, notion of recurrent infection and the presence of silvery-gray color of the hair and eyebrows, diagnosis of Griscelli Syndrome was evoked directing a light microscopy examination of the hair that showed a large, irregular clumps of pigments characteristic of Griscelli Syndrome. The molecular biology showed mutation in RAB27A gene confirming the diagnosis of a Griscelli syndrome type 2. The first-line therapy in management of Macrophage activation syndrome complicating Griscelli syndrome type 2 was based on the parenteral administration of high doses of corticosteroids (methylprednisolone pulses 1g/0.73m 2 /day for 3 days then 60mg/m 2) with poor response; persisting with involvement of the 3 cell lines in the blood count, elevated ferritin and triglycerides. Given the lack of response to steroids, Etoposide was started for 3 days associated with cyclophosphamide, the evolution was good with improvement of count blood cells, ferritin was lessening while the bone marrow showed decreased numerous of macrophages with low haemophagocytic activity. On the other side the infectious process was good managed by perfusion of Antibiotics such as Ceftazidim in combination with aminoside. The patient was sent home with prednisone and cyclosporine, He was placed on the list of bone marrow transplantation (BMT). 
He had developed no symptoms during his hospitalization. The output's weight was 2400g which signify the loss of 630g.
Back home, he received exclusive maternal breastfeeding. On his fifth day of life, he presented multiple yellowish-watery stools (ab 12 times) and refuse feeding with apyrexia context. He had clinical signs of severe dehydration without fever or vomiting. He lost 930g relative to the birth's weight. The abdomen appeared neither tender nor distended, and the rest of his physical examination was normal. The laboratory findings revealed hypernatremia of 152mEq/L, hyperkalemia of 7,8mEq/L and severe metabolic acidosis: blood PH: 7,1, HCO3:4mEq/L. The osmotic gap was 45. There was no leukocytosis, and the serum level of C-reactive protein was normal. The infant was treated with intravenous fluids and electrolytes as well as antibiotics after obtaining blood and stool cultures, assuming an infectious etiology. After 26 hours of rehydration therapy, the dehydration resolved, however, a functional acute renal failure complicated by acidosis and hyperkalemia appeared. The chest radiograph showed "bat wings" pattern and the cardiothoracic index was 0, 45. The renal ultrasound showed discretely hyperechoic kidneys cortex and the absence of renal malformations. 
On the 11 th day of life, he was transferred to the pediatric intensive care unit. He needed mechanical ventilation for three days and exclusive parenteral feeding by central catheter. The evolution was burdened by cholestasis due to the prolonged parenteral feeding and nosocomial infection by staphylococcus epidermidis. Since his admission, he had developed a slimy diarrhea with 3 to 4 stools per day. He presented a profuse diarrhea during each attempt to introduce enteral feeding by hydrolyzed milk formula. He was discharged after 32 days with output's weight 3250g.
 The oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy and duodenal biopsy showed partial villous atrophy associated to the brush border abnormalities. The periodic acid Schiff (PAS) stain revealed abnormalities in the brush border characterized by loss of the linear part of enterocytes with the presence of intra-cytoplasmic PAS + band in the apical pole of enterocytes uneven thickness and sometimes with double contours pattern. In the submucosa, there were numerous Brunner glands. We find the existence of numerous hemorrhagic suffusions. The CD10 immunostain was positive. Thus, a diagnosis hypothesis of MVID was raised. The electron microscopic examination confirmed the diagnosis. 
Mutation analysis of peripheral blood samples of the neonate revealed a mutation at the homozygous status of MYO5B gene. 
The baby died, after 97 days of life, of septic shock and multiple organ failure. 
The remainder of physical examination was unremarkable. Abnormal laboratory results on admission included a white blood cell count (WBC) of 20.830 (4-10.5x10³/μL), elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) level (28mg/dl, normal ≤0.5mg/dl), slightly elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) of 56 IU/L (normal 5-40 IU/L), and lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) of 255 IU/L (normal <225 IU/L). Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) was normal. Abdominal ultrasonography on admission revealed a mildly enlarged liver and spleen and the presence of 2 sizable, hypoechoic lesions. Abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan revealed the 2 aforementioned lesions in diameter of 5.6cm at the left liver lobe and 5.2cm in the right lobe Figure 1, Figure 2. The lesions were hypodense and presented peripheral enhancement after intravenous contrast, similar to the morphology of hepatic abscesses. The patient was admitted for further evaluation and treatment. Culture guided antimicrobials and appropriate drainage was our first option. Empiric antibiotic therapy with intravenous ciprofloxacin (400mg every 12 hours), and metronidazole (500mg every 8 hours) was initiated. All cultures resulted negative. Initially, we performed percutaneous sonographic (U/S) guided aspiration into the left hepatic abscess cavity. A thick, purulent material of 40cc was drained and sent for culture. Microbiology revealed a Gram-negative bacterium that presented slow growth. On the 5 th and 8 th days of admission, we performed CT guided catheter drainage of both abscesses. Meanwhile irregular spikes of fever with daytime variation accompanied by night sweats persisted. Ciprofloxacin discontinued and meropenem at a dose of 1gr every 8 hours administered. Thorough screening for other possible sources of infection, resulted negative. Transthoracic echocardiography was negative for vegetations and showed mild mitral regurgitation. Entamoeba histolytica Abs, echinococcus Abs, leismania Abs, brucella Abs were negative. Gastrointestinal endoscopic evaluation was unrevealing. The patient was also HIV negative and no other immunodeficiency conditions were identified. Eventually, the isolate identified by the Vitek 2 automated system and classified as A. aphrophilus. To confirm the identification of the strain we performed matrix assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). The sensitivity test was performed with minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) test strips; the isolate's susceptibility was to ceftriaxone ≤0.125 (S), cefepime ≤0.5 (S), ciprofloxacin ≤0.125 (S), gentamycin ≤0.5 (S), amikacin ≤0.125 (S) and to meropenem ≤0.032 (S). Percutaneous drainage of both abscesses, combined with antimicrobial treatment, was successful and the patient's clinical condition improved. Thankfully, no surgical procedure was required. The drains were removed immediately the fluid from the abscess cavities became clear. Meropenem was administered for a total of 2 weeks. Then meropenem was switched to oral ciprofloxacin for another 4 weeks and the patient was discharged from the hospital, in full recovery. Follow-up sonogram obtained almost 2 months after the drainage showed completely normal liver parenchyma without any residual liver cavities. 
She has never practiced contraception. She has been adequately treated for acute pelvic inflammatory disease five years earlier. Her only child is a girl born vaginally seven years ago. Her blood group is B rhesus positive and she has never undergone surgery. She presented with sympathetic signs of pregnancy and the urinary pregnancy test was positive but echography was not yet done. On admission, besides the main complain, the patient had vaginal bleeding and nausea but neither fever, nor vomiting. On physical examination her general condition was good and the blood pressure was 110/70 millimeters of mercury, the respiratory rate: 20 cycles / minute; the pulse rate: 70 pulsations/minute and the temperature: 37.3 degree Celsius. The conjunctivae were pink and the tongue was clean and moist. There were no cervical adenopathies. The breast and cardiopulmonary examination revealed no abnormalities. The abdomen was flat, and mobile with respiration. On palpation there was just a tenderness of the left iliac fossa and the bowel sounds were normal on auscultation. Inspection under speculum revealed normal gravid external cervical os and there was no vaginal discharge. On digital exploration, the cervix was posterior long and closed, the uterus was globular, increased in size and compatible with an eight weeks pregnancy. The left adnexae presented with a tender, smooth and mobile mass of seven centimeters diameter but the right one were normal. The posterior cervico-vaginal fornix was neither tender nor bulging. We suspected a non ruptured extra-uterine pregnancy with the following differentials: heterotopic pregnancy, torsion of ovarian cyst in pregnancy, and intra-cystic ovarian bleeding in pregnancy. Paraclinical investigations revealed: beta human Chorionic Gonadotropin (β hCG) level of 96 702 milli International Units per milliliter of plasma (mIU/ml). Ultrasonography revealed a heterogenous left ovarian mass of 82 millimeters in diameter, an empty uterus and no peritoneal effusion. This comforted our first diagnosis. After a normal pre-operative work up, an emergency laparotomy was done under general anesthesia. The findings were: left ovary containing a gestational sac and the corpus luteum, normal right adnexae, normal left tube and normal uterus. There was no hemoperitoneum. We dissected the ovarian capsule and carried out ablation of the gestational sac, then we did hemostasis. The specimen was analysed by the pathologist who found decidual cells and trophoblastic tissue within the ovarian capsule and thus confirmed the ovarian pregnancy. Post operative course was uneventful and the patient was discharged six days after surgery. The ?hCG level decreased and disappeared 25 days after surgery. 
There was adequate keratinized tissue present on the lingual aspect after crown lengthening procedure. No osseous reduction was required [2]. 
Two weeks after crown lengthening, the canals were prepared using no. 2 and no. 3 peso-reamers in mesio-buccal and distal canal respectively. A direct pattern was made using GC Pattern Resin and a Prefabricated no. 2 MANI Post. The pattern was made with the prefabricated post in the mesio-buccal canal. After the resin has set, the prefabricated post was rotated and removed from the resin post and core. The resin pattern was carefully removed from the distal canal after it had set completely. The pattern was casted using semi-precious alloy. Both, the pre-fabricated post and the finished cast past was sand blasted using 50 microns aluminum oxide. Also a small slot was prepared on the prefabricated post at the occlusal level of the cast-core. This was done to felicitate easy removal of the occlusal excess without using any rotary tools, as the vibrations caused by the rotary instruments to cut off the excess pre-fabricated post, may loosen the bond of the unset cement Figure 2, Figure 3. 
The tooth was isolated using a rubber dam. The tooth was treated using 37% phosphoric acid. The canals were rinsed and dried using distilled water and paper points. The cement used was resin modified GIC [3]. The cement was dispensed using dispensing tips into both the prepared canals. The cast post was coated with some more cement and seated into the tooth. The pre-fabricated post was also immediately pushed into the mesio-buccal canal before the cement had passed its working time. The cement was allowed to set for 5 minutes. After the initial set had occurred, the excess part of the prefabricated post was tilted and broken off from the assembly. The slot made at the occlusal level provided an easy means to cut the excess off and allowed the patient to occlude. 
Tooth preparation procedure : post cementation, after 48 hours, the patient was recalled. Tooth preparation was done during this appointment. The margins chosen were chamfer on distal, lingual and buccal aspect Figure 4, Figure 5. 
A knife edge margin was chosen on the mesial aspect. Studies claim that the zirconia preparation with no margin and a sub-gingival margin has a very good longitivity [4]. Modern day zirconia allows the clinician to have margins as thin as 0.2 mm. Also the highly polished zirconia facilitates hemi-desmosomal attachment with the gingiva. This also prevents marginal leakage Figure 6. 
The internet search suggested that he may have MFS, and this was the primary reason for him to visit the hospital to find out if he indeed did have MFS. The patient did not have a family history of a similar problem. 
On general examination the patient was comfortable at rest, extremely tall (2.1 meters) and thin with typical musculoskeletal features of MFS. These included arachnodactyly with positive wrist and thumb signs, pectus carinatum deformity, hind foot valgus, dolichostenomelia (< 0.78), increased arm span/height, scoliosis, dolichochepaly, enophthalmos, downslanting palpebral fissures, malar hypoplasia, and retrognathia. His total systemic score was 10 based on the revised Ghent nosology. Figure 1 demonstrates the patients typical clinical signs of MFS. 
The patient was normotensive with a sinus bradycardia of 60 beats per minute. The first heart sound was soft with a murmur of mitral regurgitation graded as 4/5. 
There were no clinical features of infective endocarditis or cardiac failure. Respiratory examination demonstrated pectus carinatum and was otherwise normal. 
Ophthalmology examination conducted by an ophthalmologist revealed a left dense cataract with lens subluxation but no dislocation, iridodonesis, an old retinal detachment and minimal light perception. The right eye had a clear lens with no subluxation or dislocation, but showed iridodonesis with myopia. 
Laboratory tests were within normal limits (full blood count, urea and electrolytes, calcium, magnesium and phosphate, liver function tests, growth hormone, prolactin, troponin T, creatine kinase). 
Chest X-ray showed an increased cardiothoracic ratio of greater the 50%. Echocardiography demonstrated prolapse of the anterior mitral valve leaflet with moderately severe mitral regurgitation and aortic root dilatation measuring 5 cm. The ejection fraction was 65% and no evidence of aortic dissection was noted. 
Computerised tomography (CT) showed dilatation of the aortic sinuses of valsava extending to the ascending aorta. The aortic root was dilated measuring 6.3 X 6.4cm. The ascending aorta measured 3.1cm. There was no dissection or calcification of the aortic wall. The arch of the aorta and its main branches were within normal limits. The root of the main pulmonary artery was dilated measuring 4.1cm. The rest of the pulmonary arterial system was within normal limits. A suprarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm was noted with length 15.1 cm and diameter of 5 cm. There were no features of dissection, mural thrombi, or signs of imminent rupture. 
The right kidney had dual blood supply, with one artery arising from the inferior portion of the aneurysm and the other from the normal aorta inferiorly. The single left renal artery arose from the inferior aspect of the aneurysm. All renal arteries were patent and there was appropriate and symmetrical enhancement of the kidneys. 
 The coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric arteries arose from the abdominal aortic aneurysm. The inferior mesenteric artery arose from the normal abdominal aorta. 
The lung fields were clear and the cranio-cervical junction was normal with no subluxation. 
There was pectus carinatum and a left scoliosis of the upper thoracic spine. Dural ectasia with posterior scalloping of the vertebral bodies was noted in the lumbar sacral spine. There was expansion of the sacral spinal canal and enlargement of the sacral foramen. 
The patient was counseled on his medical condition and offered surgery for his mitral valve and aortic root dilation. After consultation with his family he declined surgical intervention. He was discharged on losartan and subsequently lost to follow. Prior to discharge informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of this case. 
The patient underwent an urgent operation of burr hole drainage of CSDH in bilateral frontal-temporal region. During the operation, subdural hematoma launched from bone hole after the opening of the dura in spite of over high intracranial pressure (ICP). The procedure was completed without any obvious accident and the vital signs remained stable during operation. Eventually, a subdural closed system of drainage was placed when intracranial pneumatosis was eliminated absolutely. Because of the exacerbation of conscious disturbance, emergent CT scan was taken at 2 hours postoperatively and revealed multiple parenchymal hemorrhage. Postoperative recovery was uneventful. Surgical intervention was not adopted, and the patient kept to conservative treatment including continuous neurological observation for 6 days in the NICU. The hospitalization time was prolonged to 20 days because of mental disturbance after the operation which was corrected successfully in that interval. Finally, the patient was discharged from hospital with no neurological deficit except for slight language barriers. At 2-month follow-up no abnormality was noted, and the CT scan revealed hematoma was absorbed completely. 
Case 2: in case 2 we reported an 82-years-old man had been admitted to our department due to limbs weakness presented progressive aggravation with undergoing frequent falls in the previous month and a history of cerebral infarction, arterial hypertension and coronary heart disease with long-term oral rivaroxaban. The CT scan showed a right equi-density subdural hematoma and brain tissue compression. The neurologic evaluation revealed slow response and weakness of the left limbs (Table 1). The urgent evacuation of the subdural hematoma was performed with a single parietal burr-hole craniectomy on the right side without discontinuing oral rivaroxaban. A subdural drainage catheter was positioned in prefrontal region routinely. Surprisingly, we observed right visual field defect the following day and vital signs was remained within normal range all the time. The post-operative CT scan showed a bit of prefrontal pneumocephalus and right occipital lobe hemorrhage and no acute bleedings in ipsilateral subdural space. The drainage tube removal was delayed to the fourth day. Meanwhile, the CT findings occipital hematoma appeared absorbed gradually and did not require surgical intervention. The neurologic evaluation revealed a slight postural instability and for this reason that the patient was arranged to physical therapy. At two-month follow-up, the patient was able to walk unaided, and the review CT scan was normal. 
Case 3: in case 3 we reported an 80-years-old man had been admitted to our department due to moderate dizziness and headache for 20 days with a history of hypertension, ischemic heart disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma. Neurological assessment confirmed mental confusion and gait imbalance without focal deficits. The CT scan revealed a sizeable right chronic subdural hematoma which caused midline left shift (Table 1). The patient underwent an instant single burr-hole craniectomy and the right subdural hematoma evacuation was satisfactory largely. A subdural drainage apparatus was positioned routinely. On the second day after surgery, sudden airways spasm occurred and blood oxygen saturation presented unstable within a short time. Emergency tracheal incubation was implemented to maintain vital signs. Simultaneously, the drainage device was closed and a emergent CT scan was performed and revealed the presence of a small area occipital intraparenchymal hemorrhage. On the third day, the patient was transferred to the ICU and assisted respiration with ventilator postoperatively. Subsequently, the patient was required tracheotomy due to difficulty of removing trachea cannula within a short time. The drainage tube removal was delayed to the fifth day postoperatively. After one week, the patient successfully detached from the respirator and returned to general ward to continue anti-infective treatment for 10 days. Finally, the patient discharged from hospital with mild pulmonary inflammation, but therapeutic process was uneventful, and the total hospitalization time was up to one month. The two-month follow-up showed the patient was in good conditions and life-independent. The CT scan of the head revealed no recurrence. 
Chest computed tomography (CT) showed diffuse ground-glass opacities and mediastinal lymphadenopathies. All microbiological infectious investigations, especially tuberculosis, were negative. He had hypergammaglobulinemia of 21.9 g/l. Other immunological tests were otherwise negative. Transthoracic echocardiography was performed finding a hyperkinetic left ventricle, a small dilation of right ventricle with PAPs 48 mmHg and an intrapulmonary shunt revealed by contrast test. The bronchial endoscopy showed an inflammatory bronchial tree and the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) concluded to lymphocytic alveolitis with a ratio CD4 (helper T cells) over CD8 (suppressor T cells) (CD4/CD8) of 0.5. The bronchial biopsies showed inflammatory bronchial mucosa without any specificities. Despite the absence of Koch's bacillus in sputum analysis, we decided to begin a trial anti-tuberculosis treatment because of the severity of lung involvement added to high endemicity of tuberculosis in our country. Two weeks later, the patient presented an allergic skin reaction. As no recovery's signs were noted, we decided to stop the treatment. Corticosteroids were initiated considering idiopathic diffuse infiltrating pneumonitis. Unfortunately, the patient did not show any improvement and the chest scan performed after 27 days of treatment showed worsening interstitial infiltrates and fibrosis. 
Clinically, he required high flow oxygen (14 l/mn) alternating with non invasive ventilation sessions. Histological examination of the open lung's biopsy then performed showed diffuse lung parenchyma damage. It was altered by a mutilating fibrosis that was widening the alveolar septa. This fibrosis contained an abundant inflammatory infiltrate made of lymphocytes, plasmocytes and fewer neutrophils and eosinophils. Epithelioid and giant cell granulomas were also observed without either caseous or fibrinoïd necrosis. This mutilating fibrosis induced an enlargement of some alveoli resulting in the formation of a honeycomb aspect. Fibroblastic foci were also noticed. Some alveoli contained hyaline membranes that were sometimes incorporated in the septa. There were no mineral particles observed with polarized light. Regarding these features, the diagnosis of usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP) associated to lesions of sarcoidosis or berylliosis with aspects suggestive of an acute exacerbation was retained. 
Since sarcoidosis was not very likely according to CD4/CD8 ratio in BAL, we investigated risk factors for chronic beryllium disease, particularly occupation's patient history. He was working as glassblower in an artistic glass factory since six months. Further to our request, occupational department's experts inspected the workplace and confirmed beryllium existence in compounds of colored glass. After confirmation of CBD, steroids were maintained and oxygen requirement slowly decreased. The patient was finally discharged at home after 55 days steroid treatment with long term oxygen therapy (2 l/minute). Pulmonary function tests at discharge showed a severe restrictive impairement. Steroid doses were slowly decreased and stopped after 10 months. A pre-transplant assessment was also made. One year after discharge, the patient felt somewhat better and pulmonary function tests showed a slight improvement. The CT scan performed found a partial regression of lung consolidations and ground glass opacities, but increase of distortion signs, cavities appearance of which one filled by aspergilloma. He received oral voriconazole 200 mg per day during 3 months. After a two-year period from the date of CBD diagnosis, the patient was again admitted in ICU for ARF. An enhanced CT scan performed showed further deterioration of pulmonary parenchyma and pulmonary embolism with fatal issue. 
No antecedent trauma to the head or ingestion of drugs or herbal preparations. His haemoglobin genotype was unknown. He presented to a private hospital where he was admitted and given subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin for two days on suspicion of stroke. His clinical state improved briefly and then deteriorated, necessitating referral to Federal Medical Centre, Owerri. 
General physical examination findings on admission were normal. Neurological examination showed a conscious child, cooperative with normal comprehension of speech but expressive aphasia, right sided facial weakness, no signs of meningeal irritation, normal muscle bulk, hypertonia in both upper and lower limbs, weakness of the limbs (power grade 3 on the Rt. sided limbs and grade 4- on the Lt. side), hyperreflexia bilaterally in both upper and lower limbs, absent abdominal reflexes, sustained ankle clonus and positive Babinski sign bilaterally. There were signs of incoordination (dysmetria, dysdiadochokinesia). Findings on examination of other systems were normal. Admitting diagnosis was encephalopathy 2oC encephalitis with differential diagnoses of space-occupying lesion (SOL) with raised intracranial pressure (RICP) and sickle cell CNS infarctive crisis. Investigations done included: haemoglobin genotype, Full Blood Count (FBC), Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR), Random Blood Sugar (RBS), Fasting Blood Sugar (FBS), blood film for Malaria Parasite (MP), Serum Electrolytes, Urea & Creatinine (SEUC), Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of the brain, Clotting profile with Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT). Results of investigations are shown in Table 1 and figures below. The MRI brain showed multifocal areas of irregular abnormal signal intensities in the parietal and occipital regions suggestive of multiple subacute cerebral infarction. Following further review of patient’s clinical features, investigation results and MRI brain, the diagnosis was modified to Primary Angiitis of the CNS (PACNS). 
Due to vomiting on admission, patient was commenced initially on intravenous fluids for 24hrs and intravenous dexamethasone 4mg 6hrly for 48hrs. By the second day on admission, vomiting had subsided and patient commenced oral feeds and tabs prednisolone 20mg two times daily (1mg/kg/d). An intravenous antibiotic (Ceftriaxone 50mg/kg/d) was commenced while awaiting FBC result. An antiheliminthic (tab Albendazole 400mg stat) was administered. Physiotherapy was also instituted. 
Three days into admission, patient had become emotionally labile (cried easily when spoken to and was frustrated by his inability to talk) but general and neurological examination findings remained same. He received tabs Artemeter-Lumefantrin (480/80) due to a positive blood film for MP. By the seventh day on admission, remarkable improvement was noted. Patient’s speech had become audible though poorly fluent, and power had improved to grade 4 - on the right side similar to the left side. Gait was broad based and ataxic and he could not tandem walk. This improvement was steady and sustained. By the 4 th week on admission, power in all limbs had increased to grade 4 + but there was still subtle Rt. facial weakness, hyperreflexia, weakness of the hand muscles (Rt. > Lt.) with impaired fine motor function (handwriting, dressing). Signs of incoordination also persisted and increased appetite, weight gain of 6kg (35kg to 41kg) and “moon face” were noted. However, Blood Pressure (BP) (90/60mmHg) and vital signs (temperature, pulse rate, respiratory rate and oxygen saturation) remained normal. Treatment was then modified with reduction of tabs prednisolone to 20mg on alternate days and addition of tabs cyclophosphamide 50mg on alternate days to synchronize with steroid-off days. Patient and his mother were counselled on the nature of the diagnosis, the possible prolonged therapy required, the possibility of residual deficits and the need for continued physiotherapy and occupational therapy. Due to the absence of trained occupational therapists in our locality, patient was provided with a small soft ball to squeeze frequently and advised to pick grains of rice from a tray repeatedly at home. He was to copy words, figures or diagrams from textbooks many times a day. All these were to improve his fine motor function especially handwriting. He was subsequently discharged and given weekly follow-up appointments in our neurology clinic. He was monitored for side effects of the immunosuppressive treatment with weekly FBC, ESR and BP monitoring and these remained normal all through the follow-up period. Subsequent follow-up visits (weeks 5-9) showed steady improvement with normal power returning to the limbs grossly, improving fine motor function (handwriting, performance of activities of daily living) and resolution of facial weakness, expressive aphasia and signs of upper motor neuron lesion. However, increased appetite, weight gain (41kg-53kg) and signs of incoordination remained. Further weekly tapering of prednisolone was done (10mg alternate days to 4mg alternate days to 2mg alternate days). By the 12 th week following diagnosis, hand grasp had become normal and handwriting legible and speed of writing good. Weight dropped to 42kg and he no longer had “moon face”. He resumed schooling with unimpaired participation. However, signs of incoordination such as dysmetria (past pointing) and impaired tandem walk persisted. Both drugs were finally stopped (after 3 months) and a repeat Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) requested. Due to financial constraints and patient’s remarkable recovery, reimaging was delayed. Patient was seen again seven months later, about one year after admission and by then those signs of incoordination that persisted after discharge had all disappeared and patient was completely neurologically normal. 
A repeat brain MRI done at this time (one year after onset of illness) showed marked improvement with complete resolution of the some of the cortical lesions in the parietal and occipital regions bilaterally and residual hyperintensity in the periventricular and supraventricular cerebral white matter bilaterally involving the parieto-occipital regions predominantly; there were no new lesions. 
The patient underwent menopause at age 48 years, with an uneventful past menstrual cycle. She had no medical history except the benign thyroid nodule, no relevant surgical history and had not received hormonal therapy. Routine blood chemistry and serum tumor marker analysis showed that the levels of carcinoembryonic antigen, CA 19-9, CA 125, and human epididymis protein 4 were all within the normal ranges. Uterine cervical cytology at the time of admission was normal. TVS showed a left ovarian unilocular cyst, size 6cm × 5cm × 4cm, with diffuse low-level internal echoes, thin walled, smooth margined, no septa and no papillary projections. The uterus size was 6cm × 4cm × 3cm, and a 1cm uterine myoma was found in the fundus. Pelvic contrast-enhanced computed tomography (ECT) images revealed a unilocular cystic lesion measuring 6 cm at its widest dimension, without enhancing solid intramural nodules and no evidence of lymphadenopathy or ascites. CT scan indicated benign ovarian cystic tumors. 
The patient underwent laparoendoscopic single-site (LESS) surgery. On laparoscopic inspection, the cyst was found to be located in the ampullary and fimbrial regions of the left fallopian tube. The left fallopian tube was grossly unremarkable and the left ovary was atrophied. The left ovary and tube were completely separate from the cyst and the cyst was surrounded by a translucent wall with serous cystic components, but solid components were not seen inside. Clinical diagnosis was suggestive of left paratubal cyst. The patient underwent hysterectomy and BSO. Although tumor markers were normal and there was no presence of papillary projections, the progression in size in the postmenopausal woman indicated a possible malignancy. Frozen sections were prepared from surgery specimens and confirmed a benign cyst. After surgery, the pelvic cavity was explored and no specific findings were found in the abdominal cavity. 
Histopathological examination of the paratubal cyst revealed the presence of polypoid lesions on the internal surface of the cyst. The tumor cells showed nuclear atypism and stratification, which are histological characteristics of borderline tumor. A final diagnosis of paratubal borderline serous tumor was confirmed. The patient was discharged from the hospital on postoperative day 3. CT images were retrospectively evaluated, focusing on the left ovary, fallopian tube, and paratubal cyst after surgery. Multiplanar reconstruction CT imaging revealed linear fat planes between the left ovary and the cyst, indicating that the left ovary, fallopian tube and paratubal cyst were separate structures, similar to those seen during surgery. The tumor was not completely staged, and a comprehensive surgical staging operation was recommended; however, the patient refused adjuvant surgical treatment and opted for close follow-up. Pelvic ECT, TVS and tumor markers were checked every three months. The patient remains asymptomatic and follow-up at 24 months showed no evidence of recurrence or metastasis. 
Subsequently, the baby was transferred to the neonatal intensive care unit. Urgent echocardiography demonstrated mild-moderate pulmonary hypertension with no structural heart defects. Initial blood workup including a complete blood count at birth revealed hemoglobin: 4.4 g/dL, hematocrit: 14.30%, platelet: 78,000 K/µL, direct Coomb's test was markedly positive, elevated reticulocytes and O Rh-positive blood. The mother blood group and Rh is O negative with the previous baby of O positive. Thus, Rh incompatibility diagnosis was made and treatment was started. She had one healthy Rh-positive child from her first pregnancy. Of note, in the present pregnancy, an anti-D antibody was not tested and the fetus did not receive an intrauterine blood transfusion. The mother received Rho \(D) immunoglobulin in the first 72-hr post her prior delivery and reportedly received another dose at 32 weeks of gestation of this pregnancy. Our patient received a blood transfusion and then an exchange transfusion. Furthermore, he had been stabilized with fluids and antibiotics. At day 3 of life, he was extubated, however, he continued to have decreased hemoglobin with increased liver transaminases with a peak aspartate aminotransferase (AST) of 238 U/L (normal ranges, 0 to 38U/L) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) of 169 U/L (normal ranges, 0 to 41 U/L). Also, total and direct bilirubin continue to increase and reached a peak of 472 umol/L (normal ranges, 0 to 17) and 343 umol/L (normal ranges, 0 to 3), respectively. Ursodeoxycholic acid was given as a treatment for cholestatic jaundice for a short period. Platelet count was low; 56,000 to 138,000 in the first week then normalized and continued to be normal without platelet transfusions. Reticulocyte count was initially elevated then noticed to be inappropriately low (0.29%) to the hemoglobin level upon discharge. Additionally, serum ferritin found to be elevated 6013 ng/L was attributed to repeated blood transfusions. The patient was discharged home at 20 days of life, with hemoglobin of 9.6 g/dL, after receiving a total of three blood transfusions with a plan of weekly follow-up. At 30 days of age, he was hospitalized for anemia with a hemoglobin of 4.8 g/dL and reticulocyte count of 0.34%. Total and conjugated serum bilirubin and ferritin levels were elevated, however; they were lower than prior levels. On physical examination, he was icteric and tachycardic with no hepatosplenomegaly. Therefore, he received packed red cell transfusion. With persistent low hemoglobin and reticulocyte count, bone marrow biopsy was performed which showed normal cellularity. Hyporegenerative anemia diagnosis was made secondary to Rh incompatibility for which treatment with recombinant human erythropoietin (250 U/kg by subcutaneous injection, three times a week) was initiated on day 32 of life. Ten days later another transfusion was necessary (Hb was 6.5 g/dL and reticulocyte 0.3%). In 3 weeks of EPO treatment, reticulocyte count increased to 1.2% and hemoglobin level stabilized. Erythropoietin was discontinued at four weeks of treatment. Other causes of conjugated hyperbilirubinemia were excluded. Work-up was negative for TANDEM mass spectrometry, urine-blood amino acid, α1-antitrypsin, serological test results for TORCH, hepatitis A, B and C, parvovirus, and reducing substances. Additionally, endocrine work-up, coagulation profile and abdominal ultrasound were normal. On follow up, bilirubin and ferritin levels decreased and normalized at four months of age while liver markers normalized at one year. No chelation therapy was needed to normalize the ferritin level. The patient had been followed at 4, 6 and 12 months of age at which he was meeting normal developmental milestones for age. 
She did not complain of any symptoms at that time. After observing the MRI, she was taking methotrexate because of her scleroderma in 2015 in Toronto. Her past medical history showed a very limited scleroderma involving her left scalp and a little bit of the left side of her face. There was no skin involvement elsewhere and she denied any symptoms or history of systemic sclerosis. She just highlighted she suffered malnutrition when she was a child. She referred allergy to penicillin. 
She was followed with CT angiogram and an MRI was done in February 2016. The CT angiogram did not show any vessel abnormality. Figure 2 shows the features that were discovered on the MRI sequences. The patient had a second MRI done on May 2016, which showed a stable lesion. She was visited in the clinic and she did not complain of any new symptoms. She had a repeat MRI every year and on May 2017 the intraaxial lesion showed a mild increase in size of the lesion. The post contrast MRI showed a tiny enhancing nodule along the lateral margin of the lesion. When the patient was seen again in the clinic on September 2017, she complained of mild sensory changes on her right side that have been around for several years and so, wanted the intraaxial lesion to be removed; however, this symptom had not changed recently as she referred. Neurological exam at that time showed GCS 15, motor strength was 5/5 on both upper and lower extremities and reflexes were present, no focal neurological changes were discovered. No sensory deficiency was noticed. The head of plastic surgery was asked to review the case as well as to attend the operating room for an evaluation of the superficial approach for optimum scalp incisional planning and we decided we would stay to the medial side with the opening of the scalp to include a broad-based craniotomy flap that contained this abnormality of the scalp to optimize healing. The patient was informed about the risks of surgery, accepting them and signing the informed consent. The patient was subsequently brought in the operation theatre for a left frontal craniotomy. The incision was planned with the help of plastic surgeons to incorporate the abnormality in the scalp flap with a broad base. Intraoperatively, we used neuronavigation and ultrasound to locate the tumor which was placed below the scalp lesion and skull defect. Brain needle was then used under direct guidance to tap the cyst with hemorrhagic fluid which looked chronic and sent for cell count and analysis. The cyst wall was resected which looked like there was a deposit of hemosiderin. Two areas of nodularity were seen, one was consistent with the ultrasound and was removed. It looked like a thrombosed vein or hemangioblastoma nodule principally. All specimens were sent to pathology for evaluation. Then, the cavity was inspected under the microscope view and no other nodule was visible. A gross total resection was achieved. The examination of the histopathology sections showed white matter containing multiple blood vessels of irregular outline with paper-thin walls lacking smooth muscle and lined by a single layer of endothelial cells. Some of the vessels were obsolete and replaced by hyalinised connective tissue. The white matter demonstrated severe piloid gliosis with numerous Rosenthal fibers. Multiple clusters of hemosiderin-laden macrophages were scattered throughout. CD34 highlighted the thin walled blood vessels. No neoplastic abnormalities were present. Final diagnosis was a cavernous angioma. 
There was a slight leukocytosis with neutrophilia and normal platelet counts. Urea, creatinine and electrolytes were within normal limits. After resuscitation, he was taken to theatre for a laparotomy, where the peritoneal cavity was found to be completely soiled with fecal matter that was leaking from two anastomotic sites from his previous surgeries. The leaking segments of gut were resected, an abdominal washout was done, and an ileostomy was fashioned. However, due to extensive bowel edema, it was not possible to achieve fascial closure and a Bogotá bag, fashioned out of a recommissioned catheter drainage bag or intravenous fluid bag, was used for TAC. The absence of space in the ICU meant his care was to be continued in the general surgical ward. During his post-operative course, the patient underwent five re-look laparotomies with abdominal washouts for abdominal abscesses, and one instance for a colonic perforation at the hepatic flexure requiring a right colectomy. Each time, fascial closure was not feasible and a Bogotá bag was used for TAC. A central venous catheter was placed for fluid and antibiotic therapy. A Foley catheter was used to monitor urine output, and a stoma bag was used for routine stoma care. Enteral feeds were started early and maintained throughout his hospital stay, although he became cachectic, at one point weighing only 37 kilograms. His abdominal wound was dressed daily and allowed to granulate. Despite the challenge of caring for the OA in the setting of an adjacent ileostomy, the patient did not develop an entero-atmospheric fistula. He spent a total of 121 days in hospital and was discharged after adequate weight gain, and contracture of his abdominal wound. Case 2 : a 21-year-old man with a prior history of dyspepsia presented to MTRH with a 3-day history of acute onset upper abdominal pain, accompanied by vomiting and abdominal distension. The remainder of his history was unremarkable. On examination, he was tachycardic, tachypneic, and hypotensive. His abdomen was distended, tender with guarding, and silent on auscultation. Although his blood counts were unremarkable, he had azotemia, hyponatremia, and hyperkalemia. An abdominal x-ray showed air under the right hemidiaphragm. After fluid resuscitation and correction of his electrolyte abnormalities, he was taken to theatre with a diagnosis of perforated viscus. Upon entering the peritoneal cavity, more than 2 liters of succus entericus was found emanating from a gastric wall perforation. A biopsy was taken, and an omental (Graham) patch was used to repair the defect. However, fascial closure could not be achieved owing to extensive bowel edema, and a Bogotá bag was used for TAC. The patient remained stable and a second-look laparotomy was performed 48 hours later. The gastric repair was still intact, bowel edema had subsided, and fascial closure was successful. He was discharged on a proton pump inhibitor one week later after spending a total of 10 days in the hospital. Histology was benign and the patient remained symptom free at the follow-up clinic. 
This presentation limited his normal daily chaos. He has not received much improvement from the usual topical and oral medication which he has been taking from since past the illness started. The review of other system was unremarkable. He does not have diabetes mellitus, endocrinological nor any autoimmune disorder. He is retroviral status non-reactive and neither does he have any infectious disease like tuberculosis, syphilis, hepatitis A, B, C. He has a positive family his of similar clinical presentation in the late mother. He was febrile to touch with axillary temperature of 38.0°C and other vitals where within normal range. Dermatological exam reviewed, diffuse edematous dark erythematous lesions seen in both axillaries and groins as shown in Figure 1 and Figure 2. Erythematous lesions had associated erosions, crusts, blisters, pigmentation, and scale at friction sites, accompanied by pain, itching, and malodor. Erosive surfaces left by the ulceration of blisters to be seen with a small amount of exudation and scab on the surface. Nikolsky's sign was positive. The rest of the examination was unremarkable. He was treated as Hailey-Hailey disease in view of the positive family history in mother, characteristic lesions in suspect flexure areas, relapsing course, nature of the illness and the referring clinicians’ diagnosis. However, he did not show the classical asymptomatic linear, white bands in the nail plates as documented by many authors [9]. We did not do a biopsy and PCR for genetic mutation of ATP2C1 to confirm diagnosis due to financial constraints. All radiologic investigations were normal. The patient was empirically initiated on both topical and systemic agents for disease modifying and symptomatic treatment: injectable glycyrrhizin acid, analgesic-codeine phosphate, anti-histamine; cetirizine for symptomatic relief and topical cefoperazone tazobactam in view of the fevers. Day 3 on this cocktail showed little improvement in disease improvement with blood test results suggesting that the disease is in active stage thus, an immunomodulator, azathioprine orally was added to the regimen. Other supporting drugs where directed by laboratory findings. For hypoalbuminemia, he was advised on a high-quality protein diet and fluid ingestion in view of the high uric levels. Most supportive investigations done where unremarkable as indicated in Table 1. Of note was the raised markers of inflammation, erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 64mm/hour, positive skin exudation culture for Streptococcus agalactis, monocytosis of 15.6% monocyte absolute value: 1.15 x 10 9 /L. He also had hypokalemia and hypoalbuminemia and hypoglobuminemia. Laboratory biochemistry tests, complete blood count, serum viral screen, autoimmune screen; ANA+ENA, ANCA spectrum, GM antibody determination and rheumatoid factor, TORCH screen infections, potassium hydroxide scrapping for fungal, fungi 1-3-B-D dextran quantitative G test, Stool and urine analysis were unremarkable. The patient showed much improvement after day 5 on azathioprine and he was treated as outpatient on the same cocktail with a 2 weekly supply of the immunomodulator as indicated in Figure 3, Figure 4. 
On further probe on his childhood history, his mother reported that he was born normally at home by a Traditional Birth Attendant (TBA) in one of the Internally Displaced peoples (IDP) camps in 2000. She reported that there was an uneventful pregnancy which was carried to term and delivery by Spontaneous vaginal delivery (SVD). She reported that during her pregnancy, she had exclusive feeding on the relief food provided by WFP (beans, yellow posho and cooking oil) during the IDP camps and denies history of ingestion of herbs or medications which caused adverse events during and after the pregnancy. She reported that her child had a normal physical, cognitive and social childhood development before the onset of nodding which began in May 27th 2011 immediately after returning home from IDP camps. The child was enrolled in Atanga treatment centre and was being managed with Carbamazepine, multivitamins and Ivermectin. She reported that in spite of these medications the child continued to have seizures and nodding at least twice a day and had since dropped out of school. On general examination, he was dehydrated, febrile and moderately wasted. There was a right lumbar region mass, tender, indurated and non-fluctuant. The spleen and liver were not palpable. There was no renal or supra-pubic tenderness. The rectum was full of faecal material which was of normal colour and consistency. The anal tone was normal and there was no blood on examining fingure. Haematological investigations were conducted and showed neutrophilia, lympocytosis, monocytosis, and eosinophilia. There were immature granulocytes and atypical lymphocytes seen on the peripheral film report. Other laboratory results including liver function tests (ALT, AST) were elevated while serum protein levels were low; renal functions tests (serum creatinine, blood urea and nitrogen level), and serum electrolytes (K+, Na+, Cl-, HC03-) which were within normal ranges. Abdominal Ultrasound showed inflamed internal and external oblique muscles of the anterior abdominal wall. The patient underwent incision and drainage at Gulu Hospital and wound left open for 14days and thereafter secondary wound closure was conducted. He received supplementary food rehabilitation and his seizure medication was changed to Sodium Valproate 200mg once a day under direct observation therapy (DOTS) and close monitoring of the vital signs. The patient continued to have regular follow up in the surgical ward; seizures and nodding stopped completely from the time of intervention in the hospital. With these interventions for over one month the child had no seizures nor nodding and the child returned to normal life. A subsequent review of the haematological and clinical chemistry findings 2 weeks later showed that renal function tests, serum electrolytes were normal except the liver enzymes level were elevated and were still high (table 1). 
At Parotid MRI, the lesions straddled between the superficial and deep lobe of the right parotid, oval 20/15mm. It shows a nodule with low intensity T1 signal, and increased T2 signal, enhanced after Gadolinium administration, with presence of multiple homolateral, right jugulodigastric adenopathies. Its characteristics were suspicious of malignancy. The rest of the biological evaluation was normal. Chest x-rays showed no evidence of a possible chest location. The diagnosis of parotid cancer has been strongly suspected. To obtain histological evidence, we decided to perform a partial exofacial parotidectomy with dissection and preservation of the facial nerve. Anatomopathological examination of the resected mass concluded a primary parotid and cervical lymph node tuberculosis. This was confirmed by definitive histological examination. The patient was put on anti-bacillary treatment (2RHZ/4RH) for six months, with significant improvement 6 months after the end of treatment. Observation 2 : a 45-year-old woman, with no notable pathological history, consulted in our facility for a left sub-angulo-mandibular mass evolving for approximately 4 months. There were slight inflammatory signs nearby, particularly a slight redness with pain and fever at 38°C without weight loss, chewing discomfort, trismus, or pus exit at salivary orifices. The young woman was in good general condition and had a swelling of the left parotid area, firm, painless, measuring about 4 cm in long axis, and fixed. There was no limitation of the mouth opening or peripheral facial paralysis. Examination of the oral cavity and the opening of the stenon canal did not reveal any inflammation or pus output. Examination of the cervical lymph node areas was normal. The rest of the ENT and general examination was without any particularity. A cervical ultrasound was done to show a tumor lesion, measuring 29 x 28 x 14 mm, of mixed echostructure with central liquid predominance at the lower pole of the left parotid. Parotid MRI showed a lesional process in the deep compartment of the left parotid gland, with low intensity T1 signal, and in the other hand, high intensity signal in diffusion sequence with peripheral enhancement, measuring 30 x 29 x 15 mm. The right parotid and submandibular glands, in addition to the thyroid are without signal or morphological abnormalities. This was in favor of a left parotid abscess. The rest of the biological test, as well as the chest x-ray, were normal. The patient was operated benefiting conservative parotidectomy of the facial nerve. Histopathological study of the cyst wall found epithelial-gigantocellular granuloma with caseous necrosis. The culture of the puncture fluid on Lowenstein-Jensen medium revealed an acid-resistant bacillus, which allowed us to confirm the diagnosis of primary tuberculosis of the parotid gland. The young woman received a medical treatment of antituberculosis drugs combining an initial phase of 2 months based on rifampicin, isoniazid, ethambutol, pyrazinamide, followed by a consolidation phase of 4 months combining Rifampicin and Isoniazid. The evolution was favourable within 9 months after the end of the treatment. 
She reported a history that her mother and elder sister passed on due to a similar illness but for the elder sister, she died when she was 25 years old having been diagnosed with an advanced adenocarcinoma of the colon at one of the Hospitals in Northern Uganda. Her mother too died due to a similar condition but at the time of her death she was middle aged. She denies any history of smoking cigarettes or drinking alcohol in her entire life but reports that they normally used firewood for cooking since childhood. 
She had moved to several health facilities in Gulu seeking medical treatment and she was being treated for Peptic Ulcer Disease (PUD) for which she only got mild relieve from the pain and discomfort. At the time of her admission she had a booklet of medical forms which when combined together could be measured at about 10cm in thickness. In all, the clinicians continued to diagnose and treat her with Peptic Ulcer Disease (PUD) and continued to prescribe antacids and other proton pump inhibitors for her treatment. The mass was even biopsied under ultrasound guided biopsy in one of the major Hospitals in the region for which the histology results showed a non-specific inflammation. 
On general examination, she was a young woman in fair general condition, moderately wasted, afebrile to touch with an axillary temperature of 36 0 C. She had moderate pallor but not jaundiced, she had moderate dehydration, but with no palpable lymphadenopathy. 
The abdomen was of normal fullness, moving with respiration. It was soft with mild tenderness in the right hypochondrial and lumbar regions. The Liver and spleen were not enlarged but there was an ill-defined mass which was palpable in the right hypochondrial and lumbar regions, which was firm in consistency, nodular, non-tender, relatively mobile, intra-abdominal and with a dull percussion note. There were no other masses palpable and no collateral findings on the abdominal wall. There was no renal or suprapubic tenderness and the spleen and the liver were not enlarged. There were normal findings in both the vaginal and rectal examinations with normal anal tone and the rectum was full with faecal matter. The stool on the examination finger was mucoid stained and smelled like rotten meat. A barium enema was requested but was not done due to socio-economic reasons. A complete blood picture revealed a hypochromic microcytic anaemia. The other laboratory results such as the Liver function parameters (serum albumin, serum bilirubin, AST, ALT and other enzymes) and Renal function parameters (serum electrolytes [K+, Na+, Cl-, -HC0 3], serum creatinine, blood urea and nitrogen levels) were all within normal ranges (Table 2). The Abdominal ultrasound showed an ill-defined mass in the right hypochondrial region which was heterogeneous with a central echogenicity approximately 7.2cm wide and with no intra-abdominal lymphadenopathy or ascitis. Ultrasound guided biopsy was conducted but was not conclusive. The histological finding showed a fibro-fatty tissue with chronic inflammation containing some eosinophils. These findings created more dilemma and frustration among the family members that they requested that the patient be transferred to Gulu Regional Referral Hospital for further management. 
On the day of admission to Gulu Regional Referral Hospital, she was reviewed by a senior surgeon who took note of the nature of the mass and the positive familial history of carcinoma of the colon and recommended the patient for an exploratory laparotomy since she could not meet most of the costs of investigations requested. The patient was successfully managed surgically at Gulu Regional Referral Hospital main operating theatre. At the Laparotomy, they found a nodular, firm, mobile mass in the hepatic flexure extending 3cm into the transverse colon and 4cm down into the ascending colon not fixed to the posterior wall. A right hemicolectomy was conducted and an end to side anastomosis was performed between the distal ileum and the mid third of the transverse colon. Macroscopically, there was a colonic tumour mass resected was clinically Duke's B classification and there was no gross evidence of mesenteric or mesocolonic lymphadenopathy or ascitis. The liver surface was smooth with no gross evidence of any metastatic sites. The abdomen was then closed in layers. The abdominal stitches were removed in the 10 th postoperative day when the wound had healed completely. 
Gross examination of the resected tumour observed a firm, nodular, annular, fungating, necrotic tumour of the hepatic flexure of the colon measuring 7.0cm in the longest diameter and had not spread beyond the serosa of the colon. Histology of the biopsy taken showed a well differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon of mucinous type and the margin of the resected transverse colon and the distal ileum were histologically tumour free. 
The patient did very well postoperatively and was discharged on the 6 th postoperative day. She returned to the SOPD on the 10 th postoperative day for removal of stitches. She was advised to continue to attend SOPD and also make an effort to visit the Uganda Cancer Institute for further expert advice and treatment from an oncologist. 
Three weeks later the patient was reexamined and a thorough evaluation of the physical and clinical parameters for any abnormalities was conducted. All parameters were still within their normal ranges. 
A review of the cancer registry at Lacor Hospital showed that there have been four female patients dignosed with adenocarcinoma of the colon for the period 2013-2015 but all were above 40 years of age (Table 3). 
She had no history of easy bruising or excessive bleeding after trauma. The patient went to a nearby health facility where she was hospitalized. She was conservatively managed with antibiotics and transfused 450cc of whole blood. Progress was marked by intermittent bleeding and an increase in the size of the swelling. An increase in the intensity of the pain prompted a referral to our health facility. 
She was G2P1011. She terminated a pregnancy at 8 weeks, 3 years earlier. A live vaginal birth 15months earlier with neither vaginal nor perineal tears. Menarche was at 14 years; she bleeds for 5 days and has a regular cycle of 30 days. 
 On examination, the patient was alert. Her blood pressure was 126/78 mmHg, heart rate was 90 beats per minute, respiratory rate was 18 breaths per minute and her temperature was 36.5ºC. She had mild pallor. On palpation of her abdomen, no tenderness, guarding, or rebound was elicited. At the perineum, there was a large swelling on the right labia majora, measuring 7x6 cm, necrotic, tender and tense, a vaginal examination was not possible. A pelvic (transabdominal) ultrasound was done which showed pelvic organs in place and a hematoma thus eliminating a uterine prolapse. A full blood count was done which revealed a normocytic normochromic anaemia at 9g/dl. Platelets were normal. 
Vaginal examination/exploration and debridement were done under local anaesthesia and a packed dressing was done. No further bleeding was noted after this. She was given the following medications, antibiotics; ceftriaxone 1g every 12 hours, metronidazole 500mg every 08 hours and gentamycin 80mg every 12 hours, analgesics: paracetamol 1000mg, 08 hourly. She was also supplemented with iron tablets, 80mg/day. Sitz baths were started and done 12 hourly and polyvidone iodine. She was discharged on day three post admission and continued with polyvidone iodine ovules and sitz baths. Subsequent follow up was unremarkable. Case 2 : a 17-year-old female presented to our emergency room on the 01/12/2018 with pain and swelling on the left labia majora. It started 3 hours before arrival. She noticed a rapidly increasing swelling which was extremely tender and tense on the left side of the vulva. She was unable to stand or sit and the pain was not relieved by painkillers, paracetamol and diclofenac. There was no history of coitus in the last 3 days and she had shaved the previous day. She had no history of easy bruising or excessive bleeding after trauma. 
She is G1P1 and mother to 7-month-old infant. 
On arrival, she was in pains. Her blood pressure was 130/87 mmHg, a pulse of 78 beats per minute and temperature was 37.2ºC. Conjunctivae were pink and sclera anicteric. 
There was a large swelling on left labia majora 9x7 cm, tense, tender with no skin discoloration. The swelling ruptured spontaneously and we drained about 500cc of clotted blood. The wound was packed and there was no further bleeding until 12 hours later when the dressing was removed. She received prophylactic antibiotics; ceftriaxone 2g before debridement and had fluids, normal saline and ringers lactate, 500cc 12 hourly for 24 hours. The patient was discharged two days later with polyvidone iodine ovules and sitz baths. 
Abdominal test revealed a remarkable symmetrical distention, with bulging flanks, positive fluid thrill. Crying on every attempt of abdominal palpation, which revealed tenderness and pain on all the abdomen. The percussion of the abdomen was dull on all the quadrants, no peristalsis. The patient was tachypnoic with no particular findings on the thorax examination. 
Abdominal ultrasound exam revealed diffuse and massive ascites of mixed liquid/solid content. Laboratory findings included a normal cell counts: white blood cells 1300 cells/mm 3 (normal value 5000-10000 cells/mm 3), hemoglobin 7.7 g/dl (normal value 12-15 g/dl), sodium 136 mEq/L (normal value 135-145 mEq/L), potassium 5.6 mEq/L (normal value 3.5-5.1 mEq/L), ESR 44 mm/h (normal value 3-13 mm/h). Obtained the consent from the parents, nasogastric and vescical catheters were positioned, and the patient was brought to the operatory room, candidate to emergency explorative laparotomy. Under general endotracheal anesthesia with halothane, the emergency laparotomy with midline incision, revealed 4 liters of purulent/alimentary free peritoneal fluid, massive retroperitoneal lymphomegaly, multiple caseous nodes diffuse on the peritoneum and the bowel, measuring about 0.5 to 4 mm of diameter, and some bigger nodules (up to 1.5 cm) covered by caseous mucus with the suspect aspect of miliary peritoneal tuberculosis. On the middle jejunum 3 major perforations on the antimesenteric side of the bowel were identified, surrounded by hyperemic and inflamated tissue with the typical aspect of typhoid bowel perforation. Some intestinal hyperemic intestinal typhoid lesions were also present, but not perforated yet. The surgical findings are shown in Figure 1, Figure 2. The surgical procedure included a lavage of the abdominal cavity and exploration of all the bowel for small lesion or perforations. A primary closure of the 3 perforations was performed with a separate stitch technique always used in the hospital [5]: a single-layer suture with 6 large vicryl 2/0 "U" stitches, through the seromuscular layer at 1cm from the perforation, to use the healthy tissue to close the perforation in a part of the bowel where there was less inflammatory involvement, with introflection of the perforation itself. A sample of the purulent material was taken for analysis, together with 2 peritoneal nodules. 
 Considering the severity of the abdominal contamination, a delayed primary closure was planned, 3 drains were placed and a laparostomy was done fixing a grease gauze to the open aponeurosis with a continuous non-absorbable suture covered with sterile sponges. The samples sent for laboratory analysis showed a high load of acid fast bacilli on Ziehl-Neelsen staining and positive serology for Salmonella tiphy bacillus. The patient was very unstable throughout all the procedure, requiring correction of fluid and electrolyte imbalance, and one blood transfusion. A combined therapy of ciprofloxacine and metronidazole was administered intravenously ad the end of the surgical procedure for the treatment of the typhoid fever clearly recognized by the experienced local surgeon. A specifical treatment for the miliary peritoneal tuberculosis was not started due to the not certain origin of the peritoneal lesions. The general condition of the patient got worse hour by hour with a progressive septic shock and multi-organ failure. The young girl died 18 hours after the surgical procedure. 
Physical examination showed an acutely ill looking febrile patient with a temperature of 38.9°C, blood pressure of 120/70mmHg, a pulse of 92 beats per minute, and a respiratory rate of 24 cycles per minute. The rest of his physical examination was normal. His initial laboratory evaluation showed a leukocyte count of 7,090/µl of which 84.7% were neutrophils, a hemoglobin of 14.5g/dl, and platelet count of 89,000/µl. Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT) and prothrombin time were prolonged by 15.2 and 5.3 seconds, respectively. A slightly elevated INR of 1.35, but a markedly elevated D-dimer of 224.6µg/ml (ref 0-0.5µg/ml) were observed. The renal biochemical parameters were normal except for creatinine of 1.5mg/dl. Apart from an AST of 223 IU/l and an ALT of 70IU/l, all other liver function tests were normal. Urinalysis revealed microscopic hematuria. Other investigations are detailed in Table 1. Intravenous ciprofloxacin, metronidazole, and parenteral artesunate were commenced. On subsequent review, the temperature was 39.2°C, pulse was 102 beats per minute, and there was tenderness on the right iliac fossa and suprapubic areas. Ciprofloxacin was changed to ceftriaxone, and parenteral metoclopramide was added to control the vomiting which had persisted since admission. On the fourth day of admission, he complained of rhinorrhea. Further physical examination revealed a mildly inflamed pharynx with no significant regional lymph node enlargement. Pulse was 82 beats per minute, blood pressure 110/70mmHg, respiratory rate of 32 cycles per minute, and reduced breath sounds in the middle and lower zones. Chest X-ray showed perihilar patchy opacities worse on the right with few patchy opacities on the right upper and lower zones. With concern for a sub-optimally treated community-acquired pneumonia, azithromycin was added for atypical pathogens. The following day, the temperature was noticed to be 40.5°C despite regular antibiotics. Pulse was 100 per minute, blood pressure was 130-170/60-100mmHg. The respiratory rate was 62 cycles per minute, and SpO 2 was 79-81% while breathing ambient air. Percussion notes were dull on the right lower zone, and breath sounds were vesicular with a mix of coarse crackles and rhonchi on the right lower zone. A repeat laboratory evaluation showed worsening microscopic hematuria, thrombocytopenia, and a leukocytosis of 11,720/µl. Blood film for malaria parasite detection was repeatedly negative. Supplemental intranasal oxygen at 4L per minute was administered. Loratadine and amlodipine were added, and the patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for respiratory support. In the ICU, the dyspnea improved with oxygen therapy by face mask. SpO 2 on oxygen therapy ranged between 93% and 97%. Respiratory rate was 26 cycles per minute, pulse was 88 beats per minute, and blood pressure was 135/76mmHg. However, he continued to have high-grade fever, tachypnea and developed diarrhea with dark-colored stools over the next 3 days while in the ICU. On the 10th day of admission, a positive result for viral hemorrhagic fever screening using real-time RNA polymerase chain reaction panel detecting the dengue virus was obtained. Supportive management was continued. After 16 days of conservative management, the patient had an uneventful recovery and was discharged home from the hospital. He was established to have a normal blood pressure with no medication after a year of follow up. 
The patient reported that the lesion was painless without tendency to heal, but could not precisely recall when it had first appeared (2 or 3 years). The rest of the physical examination was essentially normal. Otherwise, the patient presented neither risk factors of HIV infection nor chronic disease, transfusion or immunosuppressive therapy. 
Laboratory findings on admission demonstrated in the blood count a pancytopenia with normocytic normochromic anemia (hemoglobin of 8.7 g/dL), leucocytopenia (2900/mm 3) and thrombocytopenia (113000/mm 3). Sedimentation rate was 115 mm (1 st hour), C-reactive protein 215mg/l and procalcitonine < 0.5 ng/ml. Serum Protein Electrophoresis displayed an abnormal pattern with a hypoalbuminemia at 31.1 g/l and a monoclonal hypergammaglobulinemia at 38.4 g/l. Her renal, liver and hemostasis function tests were normal. Chest imaging and cardiac ultrasounds were within normal limits. However, abdomino-pelvic imaging (ultrasound and scan) revealed the presence of a homogenous hepatosplenomegaly. Initially differential diagnosis mainly included brucellosis, typhoid fever, visceral leishmaniasis and hematological malignancies. Bacteriological cultures of blood (3 series), stool and urine revealed all negative. Hepatitis B Virus, Salmonella and Brucella antibody tests were also unrevealing. However, Leishmania rk39 immuno-chromatography test was positive, consistent with a VL diagnosis. A bone marrow aspiration was performed. Its parasitological examination revealed the presence of Leishmania amastigote forms. The patient serum was also positive for Leishmania anti-bodies by immunofluorescence antibody test (titer = 1/400). Blood parasite load determined by a real time quantitative PCR (qPCR) targeting the Leishmania kinetoplast was 400 parasites/ml [5]. 
On another hand, direct microscopic examination performed on skin smears showed no Leishmania amastigotes. However, Leishmania DNA amplification was obtained from the dermal DNA extract, using the same qPCR. Molecular typing of isolates obtained from both samples (blood and skin) was carried out by sequence analysis of ribosomal internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) region of rRNA gene. This analysis showed that the Leishmania strains from the arm cutaneous lesion and the blood corresponded to the species L. infantum and were 100% identical. 
Visceral Leishmaniasis diagnosis was retained and a course of anti-leishmanial therapy with intravenous amphotericin B deoxycholate at a dose of 1 g/kg/day every 2 days was started. The patient developed a mild renal failure, which was corrected after spacing the cures and rehydration. The response to treatment was rapidly favorable with apyrexia and an improvement in general conditions including resolution of fatigue and increased appetite. The splenomegaly resolved and blood count levels returned to reference ranges. Real-time PCR in blood after 28 days of treatment revealed negative. However, the skin lesion did not improve although Leishmania qPCR on dermal sample became negative. The physician reconsidered CL diagnosis and recommended a skin biopsy which was refused by the patient. A year later, the lesion was clinically almost the same. A polarized dermoscopy examination revealed ulcerations and short, fine arborizing vessels, evocative of a basal cell carcinoma. Histopathology examination of the skin lesion biopsy, finally accepted by the patient, confirmed the diagnosis of basal cell carcinoma. A complete excision of the tumor was performed and the evolution was good. 
However, she complained of abdominal pain and intermittent uterine contractions. She was commenced on oral nifedipine for tocolysis. Her laboratory test confirmed COVID-19 infection after 48 hours and she was referred to LUTH immediately. Although LUTH has assigned wards for the management of patients with COVID-19, there were no dedicated spaces for infected pregnant women and their neonates. However, there was a dedicated operating theatre with a safe corridor to one of the COVID-19 isolation wards. The woman was admitted in a private room at the isolation ward prior to the caesarean section. A multidisciplinary team of obstetricians, anaesthetists, neonatologists, nurses, psychiatrists and infectious disease experts were assembled and simulation sessions were undertaken based on the established infection prevention and control (IPC) guidelines. All staff caring for the woman wore appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE). Her laboratory results were unremarkable except for lymphopenia (a common laboratory finding in patients with COVID-19) [6, 9] and hypokalaemia. The correction of hypokalaemia was commenced with parenteral potassium infusion. She was appropriately counselled and reassured to calm her perioperative anxiety. A remote consent was taken via video call, after sharing appropriate information material via WhatsApp messaging. 
On admission day 2, she was transported to the operating theatre while observing all the necessary IPC measures. After signing a written informed consent, she had a lower segment caesarean section and bilateral tubal ligation performed under spinal anaesthesia. She was delivered of a full-term male baby weighing 2600g with Apgar score 9 and 10 in 1 and 5 minutes, respectively. Intraoperative oxygen saturation was maintained at a minimum of 98%, intraoperative infusion volume was 1000mL and estimated blood loss was 600mL. She had prophylactic intravenous tranexamic acid 1g and carbetocin 100μg. The mother and baby were nursed in the recovery room of the operating theatre and the immediate postnatal period was uneventful. The newborn was commenced on breast milk substitute until the mother was able to breastfeed the baby on demand. On day 3 after delivery, the mother and her newborn were transferred back to the isolation ward. The nasopharyngeal swabs collected from the neonate (at birth and 48 hours after birth) were all negative for COVID-19 infection. Both mother and baby remained asymptomatic during the postpartum period. On day 15 after delivery, the mother met the criteria for discharge because she had remained asymptomatic for more than 14 days after her initial positive result [4]. After appropriate counselling, the mother and her baby were discharged home and scheduled for a follow-up visit in 2 weeks. Throughout the period of care, contact between staff and patient was minimised and she wore a surgical mask all the time. Telephone conversations were frequently used for communication between the woman and the multi-disciplinary team members (obstetrician, anaesthetist, neonatologist and psychiatrist). Fourteen days after the delivery, all her caregivers remained well. 
Delivery was by vaginal route with cephalic presentation, and adaptation to extra-uterine life was normal with Apgar scores of 8, 10 and 10 respectively at the 1 st, 5 th, and 10 th minutes. Meconium and urine were not emitted immediately after birth. On physical exam, the baby's hue was normal, the limbs were quadriflexed and reactive. The vital parameters were normal as follows: temperature (T°) = 36.5°C; breathing rate (BR) = 58 Cycle per minutes; the heart rate (HR) = 148 Beats per minute; blood oxygen saturation (SPO2) = 98%. Anthropometric parameters were height = 47cm; head circumference = 35cm; the weight = 2965kg. The conjunctivae and sclera were normal, no facial dysmorphy was noted, and the nasal catheter testing for choanal atresia was negative. The cardio-pulmonary exam was normal. The abdomen was slightly distended, asymetric, with a batrachian-like spread out. The abdominal wall seemed crumpled, especially on the left flank. The intestines could be felt beneath the abdominal skin. The umbilical stump was fresh and normally vascularized. The osteo-articular exam was without peculiarities, with an upper segment height = 26cm, while that of the lower segment was = 21cm. The external genitalia were masculine, but the scrotum was empty, due to undescended testes. There was no sexual differentiation anomaly; the anus was present and permeable. The minimal neurological exam was normal with primitive reflexes, axial and peripheral tonus that were normal. The paraclinical exams done comprised an abdominal ultrasound which showed features in favor of aplasia of the left antero-lateral abdominal muscles, the kidneys had normal topography, sizes (left kidney = 47mm; right kidney = 48mm), and were well-differentiated. There was however, dilatation of the ureters and pyelocaliectasis, characterizing hydro ureteronephrosis. The kidney function was altered with blood urea = 2.19 g/l, creatinine = 33.0mg/l and a creatinine clearance of 5.88ml/min. The first micturition occurred 50 hours after birth. The mother's kidney function was rather normal. Further complementary exams such as cardiac and trans-fontanellar doppler ultrasounds, rachis and thoraco-abdominal radiography, as well as abdomino-pelvic computed tomography (CT)-scan in search of other malformations could not be done because of financial limitations. The management consisted in the maintenance of a balanced hydroelectrolytic state, adequate postures, enteral feeding through a nasogatric tube, given the difficulty to put the baby onto the breast, and delayed digestion. The surgical management would have consisted in a sequential intervention comprising: orchidopexy, urinary tract reconstruction and abdominoplasty respectively. However, these could not be practiced in due time, because of renal failure and limited financial resources. The neonate died after 7 days of life. 
The patient was diagnosed with CML. She received a chemotherapy protocol made of hyperalkalinisation, allopurinol, hydroxyurea and a treatment based on imatinib at the dose of 400mg per day. Patient achieved complete hematological remission at three months and complete cytogenetic remission at 12 months. The patient was readmitted into our pediatric department with complains of severe headache, vomiting, pain and bilateral visual loss since three days. On examination, patient was afebrile and appeared pale. Blood pressure was 100/60mm/hg and the heart rate 98 beat/minute. There was no lymphadenopathy and the nervous system examination was normal. Intraocular muscle testing was normal; however, there was an exophthalmia in both eyes. The pupil was sluggish to react to light. Fundoscopy revealed bilateral stade III disc edema and hemorrhages of the retina. She underwent a brain computed tomography (CT) scan with the suspicion of leukemic involvement or any other intracranial event (cerebral edema); however, nothing was found. A subsequent bone marrow exam showed no morphologic or molecular evidence of CML or acute leukemia. Cytological evaluation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was also negative. The patient had no other known pathology that could be held responsible for retina edema. We suggested that it was a side effect of imatinib so its administration was temporary interrupted. The patient was put on an anti-edema therapy (mannitol, dexamethasone). However, few months later, the patient presented in the emergency room with a headache and severe vomiting. She described a recurrence of the same character of headaches accompanied with weakness of extremities and seizures. Nervous system examination revealed neck rigidity, presence of meningeal signs and lower limb paraplegia. CT of the brain revealed subdural chronic hematoma and a serpenginous gyriform enhancement around the contusion in the right parietal and occipital lobes. Analysis of the CSF collected showed lymphoblasts in a WBC count of 11000cells/ml. Flow cytometry of the CSF showed that blast cells were positive for a cluster of differentiation markers (CD) (CD34, CD19, CD10, CD22 and partially positive for CD45) confirming CNS extramedullary lymphoid blast infiltration. A bone marrow aspiration was done to evaluate the status of her chronic myelogenous leukemia and result was consistent with a chronic phase. Fundus examination showed bilateral optic atrophy. 
The diagnosis of extramedullary isolated CNS blast crises (lymphoid type) was based on the presence of blasts in CSF (confirmed by flow cytometry). 
The patient received a high-dose systemic induction chemotherapy and intrathecal therapy (methotrexate, arabinoside and dexamethasone). The imatinib was replaced by dasatinib at the dose of 100 mg per day. She was treated with 24 Gy of whole-brain radiation therapy. 
Allogenic stem cell transplantation was not feasible. We noticed a rapidly progressive amelioration in her neurological status after finishing systemic chemotherapy and physical therapy; however, the patient's visual loss showed no signs of improvement. 
The differential diagnosis included pneumonia, heart failure and COVID-19. The chest radiograph revealed para-hilar opacities and enlarged cardiac silhouette. Chest Computed tomography showed ground-glass changes indicative of viral pneumonia. The electrocardiogram revealed sinus tachycardia, diffuse and nonspecific disturbances of ventricular repolarization. Laboratory-based tests conducted upon admission revealed the following: hemoglobin level was normal (15.5 g/dL), as well as platelets (296,000/mm 3), unchanged coagulation; Inflammation syndrome was evident: white cell count was 21390/mm 3 elevated CRP hs (341 mg/L). Blood and urine cultures were all negative. There were increases in lactate dehydrogenase (425 UI/l), ferritin (594 ng/ml) and D-dimer levels (1415 ng/ml). In addition, the patient showed deranged liver and renal function. Markers of myocardial injury included elevated troponin I (Trop I) (111 ng/ml), and n-terminal brain natriuretic peptide (NT-BNP) (1400 pg/ mL). Laboratory data are summarized in Table 1. Two nasopharyngeal swab were taken, one day apart and were negative for COVID-19. We still suspected the COVID-19 as he had many clinical, biological and radiological arguments. Bedside transthoracic echocardiography revealed an enlarged left ventricle (61 mm), segmental myocardial hypokinesis along with a low left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) (30%) and elevated left ventricular pressures. Coronary angiography revealed no obstructive atherosclerosis lesions in the coronary artery. Most of the etiologic analyses for this dilated cardiomyopathy remained negative. ELISA tests demonstrated a recent CMV infection (IgG negative, IgM positive) (Table 1). An extensive biological screening was performed to identify another potential cause of acute hepatitis: total IgG was negative. We ruled out drug induced and autoimmune hepatitis, hereditary hemochromatosis and 1-antitrypsin deficiency. Abdominal ultrasonography showed normal liver characteristics with no biliary tract dilatation. Cardiac MR-scan was performed Day 6. Delayed enhancement sequences demonstrated subepicardial enhancement in the lateral free-wall of the left ventricle. The diagnosis of CMV-induced fulminant myocarditis was made on the basis of the acute clinical presentation and serologic evidence of infection. His hepatitis and pulmonary lesions were probably due to this primary CMV infection. The cardiogenic shock and the congestive heart failure were treated with intravenous inotropic agents and diuretic; without the need of an anti-viral medication. Two days later, the patient showed clinical improvement. We started supportive medication that included oral administration of 5 mg of ramipril, 2.5 mg of bisoprolol, 40 mg of furosemide twice a day, and 25 mg of spironolactone once a day. During the next week, the patient made steady progress, his liver enzyme levels and infection-related markers decreased (Table 1). After 13 days of hospitalization, the electrocardiogram, chest CT and echocardiography had become normal. He was discharged under bisoprolol 2.5 mg and ramipril 5 mg per day. The patient remained asymptomatic with no further episodes of breathlessness at two-week follow-up. 
The budding taking over the entire sole of the foot, the patient decided to consult the Center of Diagnostic and Treatment (CDT) of Tuberculosis of Baleng which, in addition to being the largest CDT in the West region of Cameroon, is also the center for detection and treatment of leprosy. Thus, the orientation of the patient in our hospital was motivated by a suspicion of leprosy. The family history of the patient was unremarkable. The personal history of the patient showed that he was hypertensive with known heart failure for 05 years. He was under cardiurine (captopril 50mg / HCT 25mg) at a dose of one tablet daily and digoxin 0.25 mg at the dose of one tablet every 12 hours. Moreover he had a lipomectomy in 2009. Nothing else was remarkable. The physical examination of the patients revealed an impotence of the left lower limb and a painful wound on the sole of the foot on the same side. Overall, he is an octogenarian with an aspect of undernutrition and slight muscle lost. He presents a moderate hypertension (170/100 mm Hg) and a cardiac arrhythmia. The ulceration of the left foot was important and burgeoning, with few hemorrhagic foci and bleeding on contact. The diagnosis of malignancy with superinfection of the sole of the left foot in a hypertensive patient was made. Blood workouk - FBC: WBC: 5,5 x 10 3 /µl; RBC: 4,58 X 10 6 / µl ; HGB:12.9 g/dL ; MCV: 80 Fl MCH: 29 Pg; MCHC: 35.3g/dL; Plt: 275 x 10 3 /µl - Fasting blood glucose: 0.89 G/L - Urea: 0.42 G/L - Creatinin: 6.10 mg / l - HIV serology was negative - Test of leprosy on the lesion was negative. Culture of the pus collected from the foot revealed the presence of Staphylococcus aureus (sensitive to cefixime, aminoside, amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, rifampicin). A biopsy was done on three different location of the wound. Microscopically, the sample showed a lesion that was focally ulcerated on the surface and superficial dermis. There was a lesion made of granulation tissue with elongated or oval vascular structures. These structures were made of non atypical benign endothelial with a mixed inflammatory infiltrate rich in fibroblasts. There was also a significant fibroblastique proliferation made up of elongated fusiform cells. On the surface, the flaps of malpighien epithelium were slightly hyperplastic: no malignancy. As a conclusion, it was a case of pyogenic granuloma also called botryomycome Treatment After the culture result indicating the presence of Staphylococcus aureus, and anatomopathologic analysis of biopsy suggestive of pyogenic granuloma, the patient's family refuse the surgical excision. The patient was then treated with ceftriaxone 1G X 2 per day and gentalline 80mg x 2 per day for 10 days, in addition to the daily treatment of wound after whashing with water containing betadine. The evolution of the patient was not very satisfactory, and surgical excision proposed again to the family, was again rejected. Moreover, taking in consideration the pharmacodynamics action of rifampicin and the effect of dapsone on the chronic leprous lesions, the following treatment was proposed to our patient: dapsone and rifampicin which were available free of cost in our Center. Our patient was then submitted to dapsone/rifampicin for a period of one month of treatment, the appointment was given at the end of the first wafer. After a month, the response was very encouraging with rather remarkable regression of the swelling and the total disappearance of exuding wounds which bled at the slightest touch. 
Since the amputations, the patient has never worn any prosthesis. The subject has requested finger prostheses to improve the quality of life. The case was discussed and with the consent for the patient's rehabilitation of fingers, silicone prostheses was planned for the first stage of the treatment. The measurements were taken by a Certified Prosthetist. The manufacturing of the prosthesis consisted of the following steps: the impression taking, the wax pattern and the laboratory works as described in former studies [9, 10]. The case described here presented with multiple amputations of both hands which present the amputation of the distal phalange of the second finger as well. That made it difficult taking the impression on the sound finger. So, the impression was done on the contralateral finger of the patient. The impressions were taking with hydrophilic vinyl-polysiloxane impression material. The finger was in relax position while taking the pattern. Two layers of the impression material were wrapped on the fingers for about 10 minutes and the negative molds were taken off after the setting was done. Then the liquid wax was poured into the impression mold to retrieve the positive replica of the hand. Then another impression was taken from the wax mold to create the final mold in which the silicone solution was inserted. To ensure a total suspension of the prosthesis, a suspension cavity was created in the mold using a pin made with cast following technique described in the former study [10]. In order to match the patient's skin colour, the artist's oil colours were used to mix with the silicone solution. To ensure total aesthetics, the nail part was first packed then the dorsal and palmar aspects were mixed and packed separately in the mold. Due to unavailability of electric oven to heat the silicone solution, the mold was closed and heated using a kitchen gas stove for about an hour. In order to have all the surface of the cast with the average temperature, the surfaces of the cast mold were turned periodically on the stove gas. The finished prosthesis was then retrieved from the mold and excess silicone flesh was trimmed from the margins. The prostheses were tried on the patient after she was educated on how to take care of the prosthesis. Through the technique described above, good suspension and real looking finger prosthesis as patient's skin colour was manufactured. The subject was able to don the prosthesis on her own and had no pain when wearing it and was able to grab an object. The patient was satisfied with the final aspect of the prosthesis. 
The chest pain was localized to the middle of the chest and was aggravated on exertion. He was a businessman by profession with no history of smoking, alcoholism, or any other substance abuse. Also, there was no history of any contact of TB or COVID-19 in the family or close contacts. And there was no history of foreign travel in the recent past. But he had reported having traveled by a domestic airline about twenty days back. There was no history of weight loss or any other major illness in the past. 
On examination his vitals were-pulse-108/minute, arterial BP-130/80 mm of Hg, respiratory rate of 30 breaths/minute, Sp02-899% on room air, temperature- 101-degree centigrade. His Sp02 fell by 70% on room air after waking. On auscultation, there was crepitation on the bilateral middle lobes of the lungs. Also, dyspnea on exertion was noted. The rest of the systemic examination was within normal limits. 
Considering this as a probable case of TB with COVID-19 he was advised a chest radiograph with sputum microscopy (Ziehl Neelsen (ZN) staining for acid-fast bacilli), Cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) of the sputum and other routine investigations. To check for the COVID-19 he was advised qualitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test from the oropharyngeal swab. The results were surprising with Mycobacterium tuberculosis detected on sputum fluorescent microscopy and were also confirmed by the CBNAAT. However, there was no resistance to Rifampicin. The results of the PCR were positive for RNA specific to SARS-CoV-2. Besides, the chest radiograph PA-view was suggestive of bilateral consolidations on the middle lobes of lungs with ill-defined borders. The other investigations revealed a low lymphocyte count (1x 10 9 /L) and increased levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) (57 mg/L), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) (580 U/L), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) (70 mm in the 1 st hour). Also, a sample for liquid culture (MGIT BACTEC) was sent to the Intermediate Reference Laboratory (IRL) which revealed the growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Computed tomography was not performed as the diagnosis was established by other cheaper and faster methods and also the patient was unwilling for the same. All the other routine investigations were within normal limits. 
He was referred to the nearest designated COVID-19 management center, where he was managed as per national guidelines. Besides, he was also started on an antitubercular treatment of four drugs as per the National Tuberculosis Elimination Program (NTEP) guidelines. He was advised follow-up post completion of his stay at the designated COVID-19 center, but he has not yet reported back for follow-up. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for using clinical data and images for publication in this study. 
On USS, an HP was diagnosed, with a single viable intrauterine foetus and a demised left adnexal foetus and she was referred to our hospital for further management. A systemic enquiry was done which was unremarkable with no constitutional symptoms. She did not have any significant gastro-intestinal and genitourinary symptoms. She had delivered vaginally in her two previous pregnancies and had not experienced any complications. She was HIV negative, had no previous history of treatment for sexually transmitted infections and had not been screened for cervical cancer before. She did not have any significant medical and surgical history. She was of sober habits, unemployed and stayed with her partner in rented accommodation in a high-density suburb and was not on medical insurance. Physical examination: she was fully conscious and hemodynamically stable, with a blood pressure of 123/87 mmHg and a pulse rate of 90 beats per minute. Her temperature was 36.7 degrees Celsius, however, she felt hot to touch. She had mild central pallor. The abdominal examination was unremarkable. The uterus was not palpable above the symphysis pubis. She had bilateral adnexal fullness, no cervical motion tenderness and had no active vaginal bleeding or discharge. There were no significant findings in the respiratory, cardiovascular and central nervous systems. Her hemogram revealed a neutrophilic leucocytosis of 18.3 with a normocytic anaemia (Hb 9.0, MCV 83.0). Management: we intended to take the patient for laparoscopy. However, due to theatre constraints we did a laparotomy. A Pfannestiel incision was fashioned and a pyoperitoneum of about 100 millilitres was encountered on entering the abdomen. We then did a midline incision to visualise all quadrants of the abdomen. A left-sided ruptured fimbrial ectopic pregnancy was noted and a left salpingectomy was done. An identifiable foetus was noted and not sent for histology. A ruptured appendix with a well-organised appendiceal abscess was also noted. The remnants of the appendix were minimal and all necrotic debris was removed. The rest of the abdomen was normal, with scanty fibrinous adhesions. A saline lavage was done prior to closure of the abdomen. Due to overwhelming necrosis, there was no appendix specimen to send for histology. Outcome: post-operatively, the patient was managed on intravenous fluids, ceftriaxone, metronidazole and paracetamol and she recovered uneventfully. She was discharged on the fifth day post laparotomy. On follow-up review at two weeks patient was well and her scar was healing well. The pregnancy continued and was viable on USS at review, but the final outcome is still to be determined. 
The blood count showed hemoglobin at 9g/dl, MCV at 85 µ 3, lymphopenia at 400/mm 3, while platelets were normal 450 000/mm 3. Direct coombs test was negative. Serum Albumin was 25g/l; proteins level was low at 50g/l and proteinuria at 3.2g/day. Creatinine was normal. Anti-nuclear antibody ANA were positive 1/320 with homogeneous pattern, anti-dsDNA level was 160U/ml. Anti-cardiolipin IgG antibodies were positive 25UGPL. Rheumatoid Factor was negative. C3 and C4 complement fractions were low (0.2 g/l and 0.05 g/l). Chest x-ray, electrocardiogram and echocardiography were normal. Chest computed tomography (CT) scan showed proximal pulmonary embolism. Renal ultrasound was normal. Renal biopsy reveals immunocomplex nephritis, lupus nephritis, segmental mesangial proliferation, mild activity lupus nephritis class III (A/C). Before starting corticosteroids, we analyzed electrolytes. Serum calcium was elevated 132 mg/l with hyper-calciuria 479 mg/24 h. 25 OHD was normal. Alcaline phosphatase was 420 UI/l. the patient did not have any symptoms of hypercalcemia. Serum protein Electrophoresis showed polyclonal hypergammaglobulinaemia. Serum and urine immunofixation as well as Bence-Jones proteinuria were negative. Intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH) was high 628 pg/ml. CT scan and ultrasound of parathyroid imaging revealed a lower left parathyroid nodule measuring 2cm x 1 cm. Femoral and lumbar bone mineral density (BMD) showed osteoporosis (T-score: -2.6). In addition, we found multiple pelvic osteolytic lesions at CT scan. Other causes of hypercalcemia and bone lysis were excluded. The diagnosis in this case was SLE with lupus nephritis class III and anti-phospholipid syndrome, complicated by pulmonary embolism associated to primary hyperparathyroidism causing severe hypercalcemia, osteoporosis. Therapeutic intervention: the patient was given a pulse of methyl-prednisolone 15 mg/kg/day for 3 days followed by oral prednisone 1 mg/kg/day, associated with intravenous cyclophosphamide 750 mg/m 2 /month for 6 months. Mycophenolate mofetil 2 g/day was prescribed as a maintenance therapy of lupus nephritis with hydroxychloroquine at a dose of 400 mg/day. Treatment of pulmonary embolism was initiated with subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin (enoxaparin 0.1 ml/10 kg/12h) followed by antivitamin K. For Hypercalcemia, patient has received intravenous fluid with furosemide. She also required Alendronate 70 mg/week with Vitamin D 400u/day for osteoporosis. The left parathyroid gland was surgically removed. Histopathological examination revealed parathyroid adenoma. Her immediate postoperative parathyroid hormone level was 64 pg/ml with a calcium level of 98 mg/l. Follow-up and outcomes: forty-eight hours after the surgery she developed oral paresthesia. She had hypocalcemia at 72 mg/l. She required oral supplementation for few months. Additional investigations for multiple endocrine neoplasia were negative. The patient remained asymptomatic. Her SLE was calm without any relapse. Control of proteinuria was negative. Corticosteroids was dropped. The follow-up was 4 years. 
His symptoms were aggravated. The ankle was noted to be slightly edematous, but warm to the touch, and diffusely tender to palpation. His temperature was 39°C. Diagnostic assessment: the hemoglobin was 9.5 g/dl, the white blood cell count was 18800/mm 3, and the C-reactive protein (CRP) was 75 mm/h. Serum laboratory studies, including CBC count and inflammatory markers, were all elevated. An X-ray of the ankle showed a posterior-medial lytic lesion of the talus and soft tissue swelling around the ankle joint. However, the computed tomography (CT) scan findings revealed a talus fracture. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was not done as it was not available. Given the clinical findings a talar osteomyelitis with septic arthritis of the ankle was suspected despite the result of the CT scan. The bone scintigraphy demonstrated a septic arthritis and the presence of bone marrow edema in the talus without being able to reach a precise diagnosis of osteomyelitis. Therapeutic intervention: the patient was urgently taken to the operating room. During the operation, the ankle joint was explored through an anterior approach. There were some false membranes, a thin turbid fluid and a pertuit at the junction bone cartilage of the talus. The talar cartilage was regular and normal-looking. The pertuit, allowing access to a cavity, was cleaned and the yellow organized fibrinous pus was drained. The biopsy specimens for the histopathological examination and culture were taken at that site. Curettage and irrigation were performed, and the joint was closed over suction drains. An empirical antibiotic treatment IV (cephalosporin + gentamycine) was initiated. Follow-up and outcomes: febrile peaks persisted during the first three days. The blood culture and the specimen of the joint isolated Staphylococcus aureus Meti-R. The anatomopathological analysis of the ankle specimen showed histological features of an abscess and hyperplastic synovial cells. So, the IV antibiotic treatment was substituted by teicoplanin with a better clinical and biological progression. Drainage was maintained for twelve days (until normalization of CRP) and intravenous antibiotics for 3 weeks. In the third week, the peripheral leukocytes count was 8600/mL, and the CRP decreased to 2.43mg. The patient's antibiotic was then substituted by oral pristinamycin for three weeks. In the fourth week, the ESR and CRP were 7 mm/hr and 3 mg/L, respectively. At that time, the patient did not complain of any pain or limitation of the range of motion of the ankle. The cast was removed six weeks after surgery. At six months, radiographies showed that the lesion healed completely. The parents were very satisfied. Their child acquired walking at the age of 14 months. In the last follow-up visit at 18 months postoperatively, the patient had no pain or limitation in walking and running. 
Examination revealed swollen right lower limb with dark discoloration from the toes to mid-thigh as in Figure 1. The leg was cold with weak popliteal and dorsalis pedis pulses compared to the contralateral limb. Sensation was intact and power was zero. Systemic examination was unremarkable. A diagnosis of compartment syndrome of the right thigh secondary to Nicolau syndrome was made. Investigations done were full blood count (FBC), urea, electrolytes, creatinine, liver enzymes, INR and doppler ultrasound of the right lower limb. FBC results were normal. Urea and creatinine were elevated 13.5mmol/l and 242.2umol/l respectively. Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) were 997.7U/L and 115.6IU/L. International normalization ratio (INR) was 1.57. An emergency fasciotomy was done 24hrs after presentation after surgeons reviewed the patient and intra-op findings were osteofascial compartment bulging on first incision with free clear fluid and minimal bleeding as shown in Figure 2. Patient was then started on broad spectrum antibiotics; imipenem 250mg thrice a day (TDS) IV and metronidazole 200mg IV and analgesia, tramadol 25mg twice a day intramuscular (B.D IM). The acute kidney injury (AKI) was managed conservatively by restricting fluid intake and avoiding nephrotoxic drugs. AKI resolve after 5 days with urea and creatinine dropping to 3.36mmol/l and 37.26umol/l. ALT and AST also dropped to 64.1U/L and 180.3IU/l with albumin of 18.5g/l. However, there was no improvement in the perfusion of the right leg and foot two days after fasciotomy. A diagnosis of dry gangrene was made and patient was planned for a below knee amputation but parents denied consent. The parents continued being counselled on the need for an amputation. After 4 days post fasciotomy, patient started having spiking temperatures despite being on imipenem. The swelling worsened with intense pain in the right thigh and right thigh skin started developing blisters. A diagnosis of dry gangrene with superimposed wet gangrene was made 13 days after fasciotomy as indicated in Figure 3. Parents were counselled for an above knee amputation but consent was denied again. Patient developed convulsions which were attributed to raised body temperatures. The seizures were controlled by diazepam 7mg intravenous (I.V) stat. Four days later, the parents accepted for an above knee amputation (AKA) to be done. The AKA was done and intra-op findings were cooked muscles of the right thigh due to poor perfusion. Patient was then put on ceftriaxone, metronidazole and tramadol. The temperatures settled after the AKA. Wound was then exposed after 24hrs and daily cleaning was ordered. The patient was later discharge and she is currently undergoing occupational therapy sessions at the physiotherapy department as in Figure 4. 
No more intra or postoperative complications were recorded, and the patient was discharged on the 5 th postoperative day after antibiotic therapy with Piperacillin/Tazobactam, completely asymptomatic. In a follow-up appointment, 1 month after surgery, the patient reported new onset of abdominal pain, at the upper right quadrant, with progressive worsening. Upon observation, he was sweaty, with pain at the superficial and deep palpation of the right hypochondrium. For that reason, he was referred to the emergency room. Due to the recent history of surgery, it was decided to perform laboratory and imaging investigation. The blood work showed leukocytosis without neutrophilia and elevated PCR. The computerized tomography (CT) scan revealed: “in the right hypochondrium, at the transverse and internal oblique muscles, a marked thickening with 69x31x26 mm, with a poorly defined margin and with densification of the surrounding fat, and an image of hyper-attenuation with 9mm”. An ultrasound was made to clarify these findings: “a pericentrimetric calcification is observed in the abdominal wall, about 6 cm deep from the cutaneous surface, with adjacent pseudonodular densification”. These findings were compatible with a migrated stone and small surrounding collection. The patient was discharged with the indication for antibiotics therapy (amoxicillin + clavulanic acid) and analgesia. The complaints disappeared and it was decided to keep an expectant attitude. The patient maintained regular follow-up and reported intermittent pain in the referred region but not disabling. For that reason, elective removal of the gallstone was proposed. Before elective surgery, he returned to the emergency department with severe abdominal pain associated with fever and an upper right abdominal tumefaction. Abdominal exam showed a hard, painful mass with inflammatory signs on the right hypochondrium. Laboratory work revealed leukocytosis without neutrophilia and a new ultrasound and CT scan showed thickening of the abdominal wall, that echographically translated a hypoechoic formation of 6x5 cm and may correspond to an abscess and/or phlegm with possible liquefaction. Also, a prominent external anterior parietal thickening measuring 8x6 cm, with two deep calcifications of 10 and 8 mm, one most likely a chondral alteration and the other a possible gallstone”. An abscess of the abdominal wall due to a foreign body (gallstone) was diagnosed. The patient completed one week of antibiotics and underwent surgery, under general anesthesia. At that time, there was no evidence of abscess on the abdominal wall and a foreign body granuloma was found occupying the entire abdominal wall, with a pigmented gallstone in pre-peritoneal position. So, extraction of the gallstone and the respective foreign body granuloma was performed, which was later confirmed through histopathological examination. Post-operative period was without complications, with progressive improvement of symptoms. The patient was followed for a year, remaining asymptomatic throughout this entire period, without other manifestations due to lost gallstones. 
The patient returned home after an uneventful recovery to be followed up locally. She maintained satisfactory saturations and fairly adequate exercise tolerance throughout childhood. She underwent phlebotomy on three occasions on account of hyperviscosity. Although counselled about the risks of pregnancy, she was insistent on having a child. At age 32 years, she became pregnant but miscarried in the first trimester. One year later, she presented to our clinic with a seven week pregnancy. At the time of the pregnancy, she was not on any medication and had only mild effort intolerance (NYHA II). The oxygen saturations ranged between 86%-89%. Her blood pressure was 101/69mmHg with a pulse rate of 86 per minute. Her hemoglobin was 18.3g/dl (hematocrit of 54.9%). The transthoracic echocardiography was in keeping with her intraoperative findings in childhood: usual veno-atrial and atrioventricular connections, diminutive outlet portion of the right ventricle without continuity with an arterial segment, both ventricles connected to a 40mm solitary arterial trunk through a 27mm sub-arterial VSD. No intra-pericardial pulmonary artery was found. Large collateral vessels (MAPCAs) arising from the descending aorta appeared to be the source of pulmonary blood flow, with origin stenosis of the left-sided MAPCA. The ventricular function was good with ejection fraction of 76%. There were echocardiographic signs of pulmonary hypertension. The risks of pregnancy to mother and fetus were once again emphasized and termination discussed as an option but the patient preferred to continue with the pregnancy. A multidisciplinary specialist team consisting of a cardiologist, obstetrician/gynecologist, and cardiac anesthetist as the core team members was formed to draw a management plan for the pregnancy, deliver, and puerperium. The patient, being a house wife, was advised to reduce her chores at home in keeping with her comfort. The patient tolerated the pregnancy relatively well, maintaining oxygen saturations between 84% and 88% until the 28 th week. At 28 weeks gestation, her effort tolerance worsened, her oxygen saturation dropped to 80% and the hemoglobin rose to 19.9g/dl. She was hospitalized and placed on bed rest, close surveillance, and regular fetal monitoring. She was given elastic compression stockings and anticoagulated with warfarin (target INR between 2 and 3) to counter the risk of thromboembolism. The initial pelvic scan demonstrated no obvious fetal abnormalities but subsequent scans showed signs of oligohydramnios. The findings suggested slow amniotic fluid loss. The decision was thus taken at 34 weeks to deliver the fetus. An elective Caesarean Section was performed at 34 weeks of gestation under general anesthesia. A female infant, weighing 1.2 kg was delivered with APGAR scores of 6 and 7 (first and fifth minutes). On the second postpartum day the patient developed congestive heart failure. She was treated with diuretics (furosemide and spironolactone) with good response and was discharged a week later. The baby was initially nursed in the neonatal intensive care unit. Echocardiography on the baby prior to discharge showed no CHD. Post-delivery evaluation of the mother showed good ventricular function on echocardiogram. A computed tomographic angiography was performed a year after delivery to evaluate the sources of pulmonary blood flow. The ascending aorta measured 45mm with usual branching pattern. The right lung was supplied by an 18mm MAPCA from the descending aorta. The left lung was supplied by another MAPCA measuring 20mm with origin stenosis. After six years post-delivery follow up, both mother and child are doing well. The mother's effort tolerance has diminished moderately but she is still able to care for the child and perform her usual daily chores reasonably well. 
At 13 months of age, he had an episode of fever. After 24 hours, he experienced convulsions and was referred to a tertiary care centre by a local practitioner. He was admitted to PICU for 15 days with a high-grade fever of 106 degrees F and refractory status epilepticus. He was afebrile after day 3 of admission, and seizures continued till day 6. At the time of discharge, he had a frequency of 10 seizure episodes per day. He had neuroregression in all domains of development. He was unable to hold neck or roll, unable to speak, and unresponsive to any visual stimulus. He was discharged with anti-epileptic medications and a home exercise program. On evaluation, his Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) was at level IV, and Pediatric Balance Scale (PBS) score was 5. He had generalized hypotonia, preferred W-sitting, had tightness of bilateral hamstrings and calf muscles, displayed body rocking and chewed the clothes. Child neither made eye contact nor, was there visual fixation and tracking. His light perception was equivocal. Figure 1 and Table 1 shows the Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) findings of the brain and the timeline of the events, respectively. Diagnostic assessment: GMFCS and PBS were used to measure gross motor function and balance, respectively. Diagnostic challenges: visual and cognitive impairment posed challenges. Furthermore, the child continued to have seizures 3-4 times per day. Physiotherapy intervention: the patient received regular physiotherapy based on the principles of neurodevelopmental treatment (NDT) and sensory integration (SI). The initial phase of 3 months included sustained stretching of the bilateral calf and hamstring muscles in functional positions, using unstable surfaces (equilibrium board and swiss ball) to challenge his sitting balance, using swing system to impart vestibular input, using visual stimulus to initiate a response, facilitating transitions like supine to sit and sit to stand by appropriate therapist's hand placement, providing proprioceptive stimulus by bouncing on a trampoline with support, weight-bearing exercises, joint compressions and use of a chewy tube. As the child regained the ability to sit and stand without support, walker (rollator) was used as a walking aid. The parents were educated about the home exercise program. 
During the follow-up visits interspersed over 2 years, the patient was reassessed and the exercise plan was modified accordingly. The child started taking a few steps without support. 
In the second phase of regular physiotherapy for 6 months by a physiotherapist, the goal was to achieve unsupported walking under supervision in the view of visual impairment. Sessions included standing on equilibrium board and stability disc with just as much support as required. Walking on compliant surfaces, ramp, uneven terrain and across obstacle course was practiced. Negotiating stairs holding onto the railing with moderate assistance was included. Proprioceptive, vestibular and visual inputs were continued to be given. Outcomes: after the course of physiotherapy, the child was able to sit and stand without support. He was able to walk without support on uneven surfaces under standby supervision. He started responding to light. He seemed to be avoiding bumping into objects or persons by apparently improved visual ability. Body rocking and chewing on clothes were seldom observed. Improvement in functional activities led to an increase in the participation of the child in social gatherings. Figure 2 shows the functional abilities of the child at the age of 5 years and 8 years, respectively. 
Jaundice appeared on the third day of life, followed by fever which was noticed the next day. Hyperbilirubinaemia was initially unconjugated with a total bilirubin of 120.3 μmol/L (7.1 mg/dl), with 14% conjugated fraction. The conjugated fraction increased to 21.9% within 24 hours, to 40.0% within 48 hours and had reached 67.0% by day six. The platelet count reduced gradually over the first two weeks of life to 46x10 9 /L. Haematocrit had also reduced significantly by then, necessitating blood transfusion. By day 14, the liver was palpably enlarged to three centimetres below the right costal margin and conjugated bilirubin had reached 74.7% of total, though the total serum bilirubin was not remarkably high (153.2 μmol/L). The liver enzymes were slightly elevated but clotting profile and serum proteins were normal. Initial hepatobiliary scan revealed no obvious abnormality. Tests for Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Syphilis and Human Immunodeficiency Virus were all negative. Feed tolerance was initially poor, with consequent weight loss. Serum bilirubin continued to rise all through the first month of life, eventually reaching 606.1 μmol/L (35.7 mg/dl). A repeat ultrasound done to exclude biliary atresia showed normal liver echogenicity with normal intra-hepatic ducts and vessels; the gallbladder was normal in size but its wall was thickened, hence cholecystitis was suggested. There were no sonographic features of biliary atresia. The liver function parameters continued to worsen and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) rose to 1,627 IU/L. Hepatitis was considered, but its cause could not be ascertained. Reducing sugars were absent in the urine; alpha-1 antitrypsin assay was also requested but could not be done. Alkaline phosphatase continued to rise and eventually reached a peak of 3,090 IU/L. Other liver enzymes also remained above reference values. Baby had however started tolerating feeds and gaining weight. A repeat abdominal ultrasound revealed a contracted, poorly visualized gallbladder, and the triangular cord sign of biliary atresia could not be distinctively excluded. This heightened the suspicion of biliary atresia, and urgent surgical intervention was considered. Another scan however excluded biliary atresia. Screening for cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection was then considered, which came out to be strongly positive with CMV IgM titre of 28.24 (Reference value 0.0 - 0.8). The mother also had serological evidence of CMV infection. The baby was given intravenous Ganciclovir for three weeks, followed by oral valganciclovir for another three weeks. Frequent intravenous cannulation was required during intravenous therapy due to Ganciclovir-induced phlebitis. Weekly monitoring of the full blood count was done during treatment, which revealed a decline in the neutrophil count, though there was no neutropaenia. Liver function parameters consistently improved during and after therapy, and had normalized by age 12 months. No obvious neurologic abnormality was documented throughout the period of treatment and the child's developmental milestones have been within normal limits up till the age of 15 months when the child was last seen. Hearing test done by otoacoustic emission testing was normal in both ears, and visual test was also normal. 
Her most recent CD4 count was 367 units/ml with undetectable viral loads. In 2004, she presented with renal insufficiency and nephrotic range proteinuria that subsequently receded after a short course of oral steroids and initiation of highly active antiretrovirals (HAART). She had, since then, been followed for a stable stage 3 chronic kidney disease. She stopped cigarette smoking and alcohol intake about two years ago. She denied any history of drug abuse and she had never been on oral contraceptive pills. On admission, she was clinically afebrile but desaturated at SO 2 85% on room air. Her blood pressure was 117/76 mm Hg and she had a pulse rate of 96 beats per minute. There was marked dilatation of both jugular veins and mild bilateral ankle oedema. She had no murmurs and her lungs were clear. A 12-lead electrocardiogram detected a sinus rhythm of 96 beats per minutes, right axis deviation, and an incomplete right bundle-branch block. A chest X-ray showed moderate cardiomegaly with clear lung fields. Her laboratory results were: WBC, 6370/ml; Haemoglobin, 13.3g/dl; platelets, 274 × 10 9 /l; Sodium, 140mmol/l; Potassium, 5.5mmol/l; Urea, 13.3mmol/l; Creatinine, 181µmol/l; ALP, 354U/l; ALT, 23.2u/l; AST, 37.3U/l; total protein, 86.5g/l; albumin, 37.3g/l; and glucose 12.88mmol/l. Arterial blood gases showed: PH 7.42; PC0 2 40mmHg; PO 2 56mmHg and HC0 3 25.1mmol/l. Two dimensional transthoracic and trans-oesophageal echocardiographs showed a large lobulated and mobile mass in the right atrium. It was attached posteriorly to the lower part of the right atrium and extended into inferior vena cava. The tricuspid valves were not distinctively visible. The mass was moving to and fro into the right ventricle with each cycle without any significant occlusion of the tricuspid valve. There was a free flow of blood between the right atrium and ventricle. The right atrium and ventricle were dilated. The right and left ventricular systolic functions were normal. There was no evidence of pericardial effusion. The superior vena cava was normal. The abdominal ultrasound confirmed the extension of the mass into the inferior vena cava. Other abdominal findings were otherwise unremarkable. Despite over two years of anticoagulant therapy, the mass remained unchanged in size. She consequently underwent surgery. At operation, a rubbery, creamy coloured and mobile atrial mass (5 × 5 × 3 cm) arising from the inferior vena cava (IVC) was appreciated. It was free from the right atrial wall and the tricuspid valve but extended into the inferior vena cava. The atrial mass was easily detached from the junction of the inferior vena cava and removed completely. The extension into the IVC was fixed to the caval walls. It was not removed as this would have ruptured the inferior vena cava. Histology revealed a fibrous tissue with embedded red cells and extensive calcification, compatible with a calcified thrombus. The patient died 24 hours postoperatively due persistent hypotension and progressive right failure. The chest was re-opened before she died and revealed a tense dilated right atrium, hypokinetic right ventricle with no evidence of pericardial effusion. She most likely died from pulmonary embolism caused by fragments from the IVC thrombus. 
At the neurological examination the patient presented a balance disorder with widening of the sustentation polygon, walking was impossible without help and was heeling, standing was also impossible without help, there was no sensory or motor deficit or cognitive impairment in the patient. On ophthalmological examination, the patient's visual acuity was 8/10 and the fundus was normal. Laboratory evaluations including complete blood count, electrolytes and basic metabolic profile were normal. The patient was investigated by a brain CT scan that showed a cerebellar tumour process with two components; a fleshy component and a cystic component, measuring 70 mm in diameter; this process compresses the 4th ventricle and leads to significant tri-ventricular hydrocephalus with signs of trans-ependymal resorption of cerebrospinal fluid. The exploration was completed by a cerebral MRI which showed a solido-cystic cerebellar tumour process measuring 70*57*60 mm evoking a pilocytic astrocytoma responsible for tonsillar involvement. The patient was then scheduled for surgery, but the surgical removal was partial due to the deep localization of the tumor process and the risk of hemorrhage during the operation. Anatomopathological and immunohistochemical analysis of the surgical specimen confirmed the diagnosis of hemangioblastoma. Upon diagnosis of cerebellar hemangioblastoma, the patient underwent a whole-body CT scan for pancreatic, renal or adrenal processes in Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, but the imaging result was without detectable abnormalities, which made it impossible, in addition to the fundus which was initially normal, to talk about Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome. As the surgical removal was partial and the patient's clinical symptoms did not improve, the patient was referred to our hospital where he was given three-dimensional conformal external radiotherapy at a total dose of 50,4Gy in 28 fractions, at a daily dose fraction of 1,8Gy, one fraction per day and 5 sessions per week, over 5.6 weeks, using the 3D conformal radiotherapy technique with fields prescribed to the 100% isodose line, using 6-MV photons. We were able to keep the tolerable doses to the organs at risk such as the brain stem, optic chiasma, optic nerves, retina and pituitary within normal limits and at the same time deliver the expected radiation dose to the tumour site. The patient received the planned treatment and the tolerance was good. He was examined weekly during the treatment by our team. No significant side effects were observed, with the exception of grade I alopecia. During the first few weeks of radiotherapy, the patient was put on high-dose corticosteroid therapy and then the dose was gradually reduced until it was stopped, with good tolerance of the radiotherapy until the end of the spread. 
The patient was examined after one month and showed a dramatic improvement in balance with no nausea and vomiting, as well as an improvement in visual acuity. A cerebral MRI was done in the patient at 3 months after the end of irradiation which showed a decrease in the size of the cerebellar process. 
He received parenteral antimalarial treatment (artesunate) with oral relay (artemisinin combination therapy) for 3 days supplemented with an antipyretic. 
 After 48 hours, the patient remained febrile and three blood cultures were done. Septicaemia dose ceftriaxone was prescribed for 72 hours, yet the fever persisted. Second-line antibiotic therapy with imipenem and amikacin was given for 72 hours with persistent fever. After 06 days, all blood cultures done were sterile. No infectious site was clearly identified and other causes of persistent fever in children, including other inflammatory diseases and haematological malignancies were investigated. Biologic workups showed: a CRP level at 48.11 mg/l, transaminases at 130.40 IU/l (normal < 50) for glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase
(GOT) and 40.32 IU/l (normal < 35) for glutamic pyruvic transaminase (GPT), ferritinaemia at 1200.46µg/l (normal: 15-100), elevated LDH at 1576 IU/L (normal 200-500 IU/L) and elevated triglycerides. Rheumatoid and antinuclear factors, anti cyclic citrullinated peptide (CCP), blood smear and viral serologies were unremarkable. 
The diagnosis of Still disease was made. The patient received one-month dose regressive corticosteroid therapy, combined with methotrexate from the second week. The fever completely regressed twelve hours after the start of corticosteroid therapy, and the patient's clinical state improved considerably. Case 2 A 10 years old boy was admitted for a 10 days duration persistent fever and asthenia. He described an odynophagia from two days prior to the onset of fever. His past medical history was unremarkable. The physical examination revealed an altered general state, a temperature of 39°C, no sign of meningeal irritation and no clinically evident portal of entry. He had a class II splenomegaly, with micro polyadenopathies located at the inguinal region and adjoin the upper right cervical chain, with good oral hygiene. A walking lameness occurred on the 8 th day with painful mobilization of the right hip. He had received a well-conducted outpatient anti-malaria treatment and probabilistic antibiotherapy with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid followed by ceftriaxone at the correct dose. 
Biologically there was a severe inflammatory syndrome with sedimentation rate at 94mm/h, CRP at 96mg/l, leucocytosis at 13000/mm 3 with neutrophil polynucleosis, ferritinaemia elevated to 1100 microgram/l, (normal: 15-100), the 3 sets of blood cultures were sterile and the arthrocentesis fluid was inflammatory and sterile. Viral serologies [hepatitis B, C, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)] were negative. Triglycerides were increased at 2g/l, LDH levels at 1000IU/l (normal 200-500IU/l). Liver and kidney functions were satisfactory, the calcium phosphate levels were normal and the cytobacteriological examination of urine was unremarkable. The rheumatoid and antinuclear factors were negative. The chest X-ray showed no infection site, the right hip ultrasound showed intra-articular effusion and the abdominal ultrasound found no lymphadenopathy. The diagnosis of Still disease was made. 
As soon as the first dose of corticosteroids was administered at 1mg/kg, there was a regression of the fever within 24 hours. In addition to corticosteroid therapy, bedrest was recommended during periods of relapses with a diet low in salt, sugar, fat, and the gradual addition of methotrexate at a low dose (10 mg/m 2 of body surface area). With this treatment, the progression was favourable. 
On follow-up, there were no improvements in strength and symptoms and hence was posted for soft tissue reconstruction of the right upper limb with a tendon transfer. The tendon of flexor carpi radialis was harvested and attached to tendon of extensor digitorum communis and tendon of palmaris longus was harvested and attached to tendon of extensor pollicis longus. After the surgery, the right forearm was placed in a plaster cast for 3 weeks. On removal of plaster cast, he visited for rehabilitation in the physical therapy department with the complaints of pain over the wrist joint and difficulty in holding objects between thumb and fingers of the right hand. Character of pain was dull aching; tingling over the distal forearm, along with numbness and paraesthesia in the palm (numerical pain rating scale: 6/10). Scar was present over the dorsal and volar aspect of the distal forearm. The range of motion has been depicted in Table 1. Elbow, wrist, thumb muscle strength examination according to medical research council was carried out (1/5: wrist and thumb extensors, 3/5: elbow supinators and pronators, wrist and thumb flexors, 4/5: elbow flexors and extensors). All superficial and deep sensations were intact. Functional outcome by patient-specific functional scale revealead score 2/10 strength duration curve revealed the status of denervation. Four weeks of rehabilitation was carried out with each week adding a different component to the treatment. Rehabilitation consisted of faradism under pressure with a surged duration of 1 second and surge interval of 3 seconds with intensity enough to produce visible contractions with passive movement of wrist joint for 10 repetitions, scar tissue immobilization as an adjunct to stretching. The duration of treatment was 2 hours; this protocol was followed for one week. The patient was advised for dynamic cock-up splint for maintaining the position of joints. Ultrasound with 3 MHZ for 7 minutes followed by hot fomentation and wrist joint mobilization was executed for an increasing range of motion. Stimulation to wrist and finger extensors with intermediate galvanic current passive movements were incorporated to improve the muscle re-education. This protocol was carried out for one week. On the 1 st day of rehab along with electrical muscle stimulation (EMS) and joint mobilization, resistance training was initiated for wrist flexors and extensors, forearm supinator, and pronators with the help of resistance devices with 3 seconds hold for 15 repetitions. Different designed objects were used to improve the grip function. On the 21 st day of rehab, EMS parameters were switched to faradic current for reeducation. Strengthening exercises were continued and progression by increasing the intensity and duration based on clinical improvements. Post rehabilitation on 28 th day there were significant improvements in parameters of pain intensity (NPRS 2/10), muscle strength (3+/5), range of motion (Table 1), patient-specific functional scale score (7/10) and strength-duration curve showed the status of innervations. 
A pleural biopsy showed epithelioid granulomatous inflammatory process without caseous necrosis, Ziehl-Neelsen stain and culture for mycobacteria were negative. On admission, the clinical examination revealed an afebrile man with a weight of 46kg and BMI of 17.6 kg/m 2. He had a marked spinal tenderness of the dorso-lumbar spine and important limitation of spinal motion. Our patient did not have respiratory symptoms and his neurologic examination was normal. The laboratory evaluation showed a hemoglobin of 12.4 g/dl and a total leucocyte count of 6400/mm 3 with 72% polymorphonuclear cells, 20% lymphocytes. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (1 st h) and CRP were respectively 80 mm and 27 mg/l. Sputum acid-fast bacilli direct smear as well as mycobacterium culture were negative. HIV test was also negative. Investigations including an x-ray of lumbar showed osteocondensation concerning the lower shelf of L1 and upper shelf of L2, Chest x-ray showed a small pleural effusion on the left. A dorso-lumbar Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed features suggestive of Ttuberculous (TB) spondylitis interesting lower shelf of L1 and upper shelf of L2, respect for the height of the vertebral bodies with discrete epiduritis. MRI also showed a collection of vertebral bodies L1L2, which communicates with another one abscessed in the left psoas. Computerized tomography (CT) - guided evacuation of a psoas abscess was performed, which revealed purulent material staining negative on Gram stain and Ziehl-Neelsen stain. The cultures of the abscess material showed no growth. In view of the high prevalence rate of TB, antecedent of pleural tuberculosis and MRI appearance, the diagnosis of Pott's disease was retained and the duration of treatment was prolonged to 9 months and the patient was placed in a spinal brace for stabilization of the vertebral column. Despite good adherence to treatment, low back pain worsened. 6 months after the diagnosis of tuberculosis spondylitis, the patient developed purulent collections in the soft tissues in the gluteal and left trochanteric region. A dorso-lombar MRI showed spondylodiscitis L1L2 with a significantly increased size of the left psoas abscess. An abdomino-pelvic CT showed collections in left iliac psoas muscle and the left gluteal and trochanteric region. GeneXpert® MTB/RIF of the vertebral biopsy aspiration product CT-guided revealed a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for mycobacterium tuberculosis positive, with resistance to Rifampicin. Hain® test of first-line anti-tubercular treatment (ATT) showed resistance to Rifampicin and high-level resistance to Isoniazid. Moreover, Hain® test of second-line ATT (FQ and SLI) showed a high-level resistance to Ofloxacin and sensibility to Kanamycin and Amikacin. Our patient was transferred to MDR-tuberculosis Unit. The superficial collections in the left gluteal and the trochanteric region have been drained under ultrasound. Following. An observed second-line treatment was initiated using amikacin, clofazimine, prothionamide, linezolid, delamanide, pyrazinamide et ethambutol, with monitoring for adverse events. At 6 months, injectable Amikacin and Delamanide were stopped, while other oral drugs were continued. Second-line ATT was given for a total duration of 20 months. The evolution under second-line treatment was marked by an improvement in an inflammatory lumbar pain, gain in weight and a disappearance of soft tissue collections. CRP and VS were normalized. Imaging monitoring performed at 12 months of second line treatment, showed no residual collections in thoraco-abdomino-pelvic CT, MRI found a vertebral fracture L1-L2 and quasidisappearance of psoas collection, only a small collection measuring less than 1cm was found without enhancement after gadolinium injection. Our patient received 20 months of treatment that it was tolerated, apart from the paresthesias of the 4 limbs which was managed by vitamin therapy, with stabilization of the vertebral lesions without the appearance of new collections. He was declared cured and he is following a rehabilitation program with stretching and strengthening of the spinal muscles. 
The rest of the physical examination was unremarkable. 
Computed tomography of the kidneys, ureters, and bladder revealed an obstructive left ureteric calculus at the vesicoureteric junction (VUJ) measuring 4.7mm. Blood workup revealed an elevated creatinine at 134 µmol/L (59-104 µmol/L) and potassium of 6.26 mmol/L (3.3-5.1 mmol/L) suggestive of obstructive uropathy with acute kidney injury. Given the findings, the patient underwent emergency cystoscopy, left ureteroscopy, stone fragmentation, and Double J (DJ) ureteric stent insertion. The pre-operative assessment involved medication review and ECG, which was considered normal. Intraoperatively he was found to have significant distal left ureteric narrowing at the VUJ with a calculus proximal to the narrowing. The stone was fragmented, DJ stent was deployed, and a Foley catheter was placed to facilitate urinary drainage. In the recovery room, he was found to be desaturating at saturation of 80-85% on room air and required 8 L/min of oxygen supplementation via a face mask to maintain his oxygen saturation above 94%. He was then transferred to the ward for post-operative management and close observation. 12 hours post-transfer to the ward he was found to be tachycardic at 130 beats per minute with normal sinus rhythm and blood pressure ranging from 80/50 mmHg to 90/60 mmHg. On examination, he was alert, not diaphoretic but had cool and clammy extremities. Respiratory examination revealed bilateral basal crepitations. The patient denied having lightheadedness, chest pain, difficulty in breathing, or shortness of breath. On workup, it was found that the patient had an abnormal ECG with ST-segment depressions and T wave inversion on the anterior (V1- V4) and inferior leads (III & aVF), when compared to the preoperative ECG with markedly elevated troponin-T of 174.1 pg/ml (0-14 pg/ml). Other laboratory parameters were: Lactate dehydrogenase 494 IU/L (135-225 IU/L), Pro-BNP 375 pg/ml (0-125 pg/ml), Procalcitonin 1.67 ng/ml (0-2 ng/ml), C-Reactive Protein 312 mg/L (0.5-5 mg/L), INR 1.15, ferritin 1531 µg/l (22-322 µg/l), D-dimer 0.63 µg/ml (0-0.5 µg/ml). A portable chest x-ray revealed bilateral patchy pulmonary infiltrates with some coalescence observed in the periphery of lungs, a pattern consistent with a CO-RADS 5 classification, highly suggestive of COVID-19, and was later confirmed by a nasopharyngeal swab using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). He was transferred to an isolation intensive care unit and started on Non-ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction (NSTEMI) protocol where he received anticoagulant therapy with subcutaneous Enoxaparin 80 mg, 300 mg Clopidogrel, 600 mg Aspirin, and 80 mg Atorvastatin. Within a few hours of the patient's transfer to critical care, his clinical condition deteriorated rapidly necessitating intravenous inotropic support. He was subsequently intubated and put on mechanical ventilation. A repeat Troponin level at 6 hours was increased to 194 pg/ml while there was further documented worsening of renal function with BUN 16.70 mmol/l and creatinine 254 µmol/ L. Unfortunately, a transthoracic echocardiogram was unavailable at the time. His condition continued to deteriorate rapidly, and he went into shock and sustained a cardiac arrest. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was carried out according to American Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) protocol but was unsuccessful. The patient was pronounced dead after 30 minutes of CPR. 
Case presentation 2: a 21-year-old male suffered isolated mandibular angle fracture following a road traffic accident. Patient in this case wanted early return to the work and also on CT scan a torsional deformation was seen on the fracture fragments. Hence the decision to do open reduction was made. Incision designing and access ad procedure was carried out as described. Access was satisfactory and 2 miniplates were placed and fixation achieved. Surgical procedure: both the above-mentioned patients were treated under general anaesthesia. Thiopentone sodium was used for induction and patients were intubated nasally. Oral cavity was kept free to achieve maxillo-mandibular fixation and achieve the occlusion. Isoflurane and/or sevoflurane were used for maintenance. Surgical site and incision line were marked with a marking ink before commencing the procedure. Thereafter the marked line was infiltrated using lidocaine with adrenaline in 1:1000 concentrations. Incision remains the key of this approach as aesthetics has been given prime importance to the designing of this surgical access. Care has to be taken that incision follows the curvature of the angle of the mandible and suture line has to be visualized beforehand such that it is hidden completely in the shadow of the angle. Incision can be said to be combination of postramal Hind's incision and submandibular Risdon's incision but to the fact that it remains closer to the angle of the mandible, around 1 cm away from the bony landmark completely in the shadow of the mandible. Sharp incision with a 15 number blade is imperative to avoid any jagged incision line. In the first stroke only skin and subcutaneous tissue should be visible and skin flaps hold tightly away with skin hooks, which gives clear view of the subcutaneous tissue. Platysma muscle once seen can be dissected easily with a pair of scissors and blade with care that the superficial layer of deep cervical fascia is left undisturbed. Further careful progression and perhaps the most challenging step is dissecting through the deep cervical fascia which is important because the facial nerve, facial artery and facial vein will be lying deep to the fascia and hence absolute care has to be taken while incising the deep fascia. Immediately after incising the deep fascia, it is of utmost importance to identify the facial nerve with the nerve stimulator and retracting it in the upper flap. Subsequently, facial artery and vein should be identified, and if necessary, should be ligated and retracted to expose the underlying pterygo-masseteric sling. Once the pterygo-masseteric sling is visible then it becomes fairly easy procedure, whereby sharp incision on the sling can be given to expose the mandibular angle and this plane is fairly avascular with not much bleeding. Once the angle is exposed, fracture fragments can be easily manipulated to achieve reduction. Miniplates can be placed thereafter and fixation achieved. After irrigating the surgical site, closure is achieved in layers to define anatomic spaces. Great care was taken to achieve skin closure wherein subcutaneous horizontal mattress suturing was done to achieve the skin approximation which gives excellent post-operative scar. In both the treated cases, no suture tracks were noticed and a linear scar within the mandibular angle shadow was seen which was almost inconspicuous at the conversational distance. 
The patient was known to be hypertensive for the past 5 years on daily Losartan 50 mg and Amlodipine 10 mg. He worked on a cruise ship as a welder for many years. On general examination he was found to be alert, dyspneic (RR = 30 cycles/min), desaturating to 89% on room air, and febrile (38.2°C) with a heart rate of 112 beats/min. The patient was moderately pale with scleral jaundice and bilateral pitting lower limb edema; an erythematous patch on the anterior aspect of the right leg was noted which measured around 4 cm x 3 cm that was warm and tender to touch. On respiratory system examination the patient had a normal chest cage with the trachea centrally located. Fine crepitations were auscultated bilaterally from the midzone to bases. On abdominal examination there was uniform distension with an everted umbilicus and mild tenderness was elicited on deep palpation of the right hypochondrium. The liver span was 12 cm and the spleen was not palpable. Initial blood work done revealed a markedly elevated white count of 31.4 K/μL, anemia with a hemoglobin (Hb) of 6.0 g/dL, an elevated C-Reactive Protein (CRP) of 221.48 mg/dL, Procalcitonin (PCT) of 61 ng/mL and D-Dimer of 6.74 μg/mL. He had an elevated direct bilirubin of 23.32 μmol/L but otherwise normal liver and renal function. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) was 30 mm/hr. HIV was negative, as was blood serology and stool microscopy for Amoeba. An initial chest x-ray revealed parenchymal infiltrates likely of infective etiology and subsequent radiological workup showed metastatic abscesses in the lungs, liver, lower limb muscle and subcutaneous tissue as well as bone marrow changes suggestive of osteomyelitis. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen showed multiple non-enhancing cystic liver lesions with largest measuring 3.6 x 3.2 cm. Doppler ultrasound for both limbs were suggestive of superficial as well as deep vein thrombosis. CT-pulmonary angiography revealed no evidence of pulmonary embolism. CT of the brain showed only mild cortical atrophy. The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit and was placed on 10L/min of supplemental oxygen with a non-rebreather mask and started on broad-spectrum antibiotics. The initial antibiotic regimen included intravenous (IV) Imipenem with Cilastatin and Metronidazole. He was also empirically started on antifungal therapy on the suspicion of a disseminated fungal infection however, after the first dose of Amphotericin-B he developed an anaphylactic response and this was therefore discontinued. For deep vein thrombosis, he was initially started on therapeutic doses of subcutaneous Enoxaparin and then switched to oral Rivaroxaban. During his stay the patient reported complete loss of vision in the left eye. Fundoscopy and optical coherence tomography revealed features suggestive endogenous endophthalmitis. He also developed acute worsening of his breathlessness which was attributed to an NSTEMI based on elevated cardiac markers. Coronary angiography was essentially normal, while 2D echocardiography revealed septal hypertrophy with no regional wall motion abnormality. Blood cultures eventually grew Klebsiella pneumoniae which was sensitive to Ceftriaxone. He was given intravitreal Vancomycin 1000 mg and continued on oral ciprofloxacin for endophthalmitis. Gradually the patient improved, with resolution of fevers and difficulty breathing with significant drop in his infectious markers. After a 25 day stay in the hospital, he was discharged home and to continue follow up in his native country. On discharge we recommended IV ceftriaxone for another 4 weeks or until radiological resolution of the abscesses was detected. 
Quickly considered as uncomplicated malaria. After self-medication with antimalarial, antibiotic, analgesic and anti-inflammatory drugs, the symptoms disappear in 3 days without ever being admitted to a ETC or healthcare facilities. October 28, 2014: MD, 18 years old, second wife of LC had a headache associated with fever, abdominal pain and vomiting. After 2 days' self-medication with unknown drugs, she was admitted in a military healthcare facility in Conakry. She was treated for both severe malaria and typhoid fever. Its symptoms disappear after 4 days without tested for ebola virus infection. The case that elucidated the history of ebola virus circulation in this family: MC, 7-month-old (son of LC and MD) has at October 28, 2014, fever associated with diarrhea. He was admitted in the paediatrics service in a Conakry University Hospital. In the first time, he was treated for malaria and acute gastroenteritis. After one week and the occurrence of hematemesis (4 November 2014), he was transferred in Donka ETC and tested positive for ebola virus by RT-PCR but died the same day. 
 The looking for the source of infection has led to perform serology and RT-PCR in parents. They have been positive in ELISA serology and negative in RT-PCR. LC and MD were positive for ebola IgM and IgG antibodies. Despite these medical evidences, the parents remained reluctant and accused the devil. However, a total of 21 individuals were followed by contact tracing teams and none developed symptoms of the ebola virus disease and all were tested negative 2 times in RT-PCR for ebola virus. History 2: family of Sir AT burial ceremonies On November 7, 2014: AT, 72 years old have attended the funeral of his son MT; 49 years old (considered as a probable case of infection with the ebola virus). On November 19, 2014: AT developed a fever associated with headache, abdominal pain and joint pain. He has been seen by a physician at the emergency service in an university hospital in Conakry. Known diabetic, her blood sugar was 6.83 mmol/l with a temperature at 39.7°C. He receives antimalarial treatment and an antibiotic. The symptoms disappear after 5 days without ever tested for ebola and without having been admitted to an ETC. The case that elucidated the history of the circulation of the virus in this family On November 30, 2014: the AT's daughter, FT developed a fever over 40°C, diarrhea, vomiting and physical asthenia. She was admitted at the Donka ETC, tested positive for the ebola Zaire virus by RT-PCR. Unfortunately, she died 11 days later. In total, 72 individuals have been registered as contacts around them. They were followed, released after 2 negative PCR and none developed any symptoms related to ebola disease. History 3: fear and promiscuity: AB, 25 years old and his friend ZM 33 years old, are living in the same bedroom. On March 26, 2015: AB: developed a fever associated with headache, dyspnea, joint pain and physical asthenia. After five days, he has been seen by a physician in cardiology department in an university hospital in Conakry. He received as an outpatient antimalarial treatment, antibiotics and anti-inflammatory. Given the persistence of signs, he has been seen by a traditional healer without success. Frightened by the epidemic context, he decided to hide to the contact tracing team. He has been finally located on April 17, 2015; he was asymptomatic. In Donka ETC, he has been tested positive for ebola Zaire by RT-PCR took care there and released after 2 negative consecutive RT-PCR. 
His friend ZM presented April 3, 2015 a fever, headache and joint pain. He has been admitted to Donka ETC with abdominal pain and diarrhea. Tested positive for ebola virus by RT-PCR. After treatment, he recovered. A total of 36 contacts have been registered monitored and released after 2 negatives PCR and none of them developed any symptoms related to ebola disease. 
Genetic analysis found a homozygous p.Gly379Val (c.1136G>T) mutation in exon 7 of the CYP11B1 gene. 
During his follow-up, grade 3 hypertension was discovered at the age of 25 associated with hypokalemia treated by Calcium channel blocker (amlodipine 10 mg q.d.) and Beta-blocker (atenolol 50 mg q.d.). It has been complicated only by hypertensive retinopathy grade 1. 
The patient was treated by hydrocortisone 25mg b.i.d. Acute adrenal deficiency didn't occur during the follow-up despite bad compliance of the treatment. He presented some episodes of abdominal pain that was alleviated after the correction of hypokalemia. Spironolactone 50 mg q.d. was prescribed later, at the age of 36, due to persistent hypokalemia. 
Progressive weight gain was observed since the age of 25 passing from 64 Kg to 90 Kg at the age of 36. He had a metabolic syndrome with an android fat distribution (waist circumference = 102 cm) and low HDL level (Table 2). External genitalia examination and bone density were normal. The patient was married and he had two healthy children aging respectively of three and one-year-old. Patient 2: a 35-year-old female (46, XX) was diagnosed with 11β-OHD at the neonatal age. The disease was revealed by the virilization of the external genitalia which was corrected surgically. 
The patient had a normal blood pressure during her regular check-up despite the presence of hypokalemia (Table 2). She was treated initially by hydrocortisone 30 mg b.i.d. and she didn't have during her follow-up an acute adrenal deficiency. 
She had metabolic syndrome, class I obesity and polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) since the age of 28. The diagnosis of PCOS was considered regarding the presence of spaniomenorrhea, clinical (hirsutism, alopecia) and biological (testosterone level = 6.2 ng/ml) hyperandrogenism. The patient's weight increased from 75 Kg at the age of 28 to 94 Kg at the age of 32, date of which the dose of hydrocortisone was decreased to 20 mg b.i.d. She had since lost 8 Kg and had normal menstrual cycles. Her bone density was normal two years ago. Spironolactone was also introduced due to persistent hypokalemia. Patient 3: a 33-year-old female (46, XX) was diagnosed with 11β-OHD prenatally. Her mother was treated during pregnancy with dexamethasone. However, since she had also virilization of the external genitalia, she was operated on at the neonatal age. Genetic analysis found the same mutation as her brother, patient 1. 
The patient had an irregular follow-up and she was treated initially by hydrocortisone 30 mg b.i.d. She didn't have a history of acute adrenal deficiency. Her menarche was at the age of 12. She had PCOS with hirsutism and irregular cycles, treated by estrogen therapy (estradiol 2 mg q.d.) associated with cyproterone acetate 50 mg q.d. 
At the age of 32, the patient was admitted for sore throat and repeated vomiting. Her body temperature was 38°C. she had a normal body mass index and a blood pressure of 120/90 mm Hg. She received amoxicillin 3 g t.i.d. for tonsillitis. Biochemical analysis revealed hypokalemia (2.7 mmol/L) without electrocardiographic changes. She was treated initially by intravenous potassium chloride then by an oral solution. 
Hypokalemia persisted after the withdrawal of potassium substitution and 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring revealed a mean systolic blood pressure of 169 mm Hg and a mean diastolic blood pressure of 116 mm Hg. The patient was discharged later with spironolactone 50 mg q.d. Patient 4: a male patient diagnosed also with 11β-OHD. The disease was revealed at the age of 2 by peripheral precocious puberty. He didn't have a genetic analysis. He died at the age of 12 by a postoperative infection following an orthopedic surgery for scoliosis. 
 The remaining family members were not known to have CAH and they have not yet benefited from genetic analysis. His sister (patient 5), aged 28, married, mother of a boy and a girl, all in good health. The other sister (patient 6), 21 years old, was following in psychiatry for depression. 
History revealed that her nails had improved with age but were small and discolored at birth. The patient's family history revealed that her younger sister has a similar problem. On intra oral examination generalized missing permanent teeth with retained deciduous teeth with severe attrition was noticed. Generalized pit and fissure caries was noticed on all the posterior teeth one deep caries was noticed with left maxillary anterior teeth. Maxillary palatine tori noticed with poor gingival and periodontal condition, oral mucosa was normal. Investigation: panoramic radiograph confirmed the clinical data, showed periapical infection with right maxillary anterior teeth, generalised absence of permanent tooth bud in both maxillary and mandibular arch was shocking. Case 2: a 14-year-old school going girl, sibling of the case 1, was examined after clinical examination of her elder sister, she was moderately built and nourished for her age, she revealed no significant systemic illness with no deleterious and par-functional habits. On general physical examination the patient was well oriented and conscious, she had similar spoon-shaped slow-growing small fragile fingernails with onychorrhexis with deformed toenails like her elder sister which was better compared to before. On intra oral examination generalized missing permanent teeth with retained deciduous teeth was noticed. Generalized pit and fissure caries on posterior teeth with one deep caries with right mandibular posterior teeth. Maxillary palatine tori was also common with poor periodontal condition having generalized stains and calculus, oral mucosa was normal. Investigation: panoramic radiograph showed generalized missing of permanent tooth bud in both maxillary and mandibular arch. Based on family history, clinical, and radiological findings, a provisional diagnosis of partial anodontia was given considering mesoectodermal dysplasia, ectodermal dysplasia and tooth and nail syndrome (nail dysplasia with hypodontia) in differential diagnosis. Genetic investigation DNA extraction: 5 ml of blood sample was collected from the median cubital vein of the patients. Genomic DNA was isolated from leukocytes using the standard Qiagen blood DNA minikit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) according to manufacturer's protocol. Sanger sequencing: in order to validate the identified MSX1 mutation, primers were designed using the Primer3 tool for MSX1 exon 1; forward primer (5' -CTGGCCTCGCCTTAT TAG C 3') and reverse primer (5'-GCCTGGGTTCTGGCTCTC 3'). A standard PCR was performed and the products were sequenced using Sanger sequencing through ABI 3500xl genetic analyzer (Thermo Fisher Scientific Waltham, MA USA). Result: the present work is intended to identify the involvement of MSX1 gene variants in familial hypodontia. MSX1 is a vital gene in tooth development. The DNA sequences were analyzed and compared with DNA reference using DNASTAR alignment software (Madison, WI 53705 USA); meanwhile chromatograms were also viewed and analyzed using Sequence Scanner software (Thermo Fisher Scientific Waltham, MA USA). We have observed one point mutation on exon 1 of MSX1 (1A;c.731G > A). We observed that MSX1 is contributing to cause hypodontia. In the present study, MSX1 gene is mutated in familial hypodontia; however, the mutation of MSX1 alone might not cause phenotype change to the patient. Few other genes and mutation is the more predominant factor which might be contributing to hypodontia compared to MSX1. This can be identified by analysing whole exome or whole genome sequencing of the patient samples. 
After 2009 there is a lack of genetic and hematologic control. The child attends a special school for blind with very high success. She is independent in everyday living, intellectually she is absolutely intact. In February 2012, she was diagnosed with intertrochanteric fracture of her left femur after a trauma and was referred to our department. On admission, the child was in an impaired general status, non-ambulatory on a wheelchair, with a plaster splint along the left lower limb. She was in tachycardia up to 140 b/min, BP at 100/65 mmHg, liver was palpated 10 cm below the ribs; the spleen on umbilical level, had hard consistency and smooth surface. No signs of intracranial hypertension and meningoradicular irritation were detected. Ambulation was impossible. The left lower limb was fixed in an abduction and external rotation contracture. Each attempt for a passive movement in the left hip joint was extremely painful. AP and lateral X-rays of the left femur demonstrated intertrochanteric fracture with a slight varus deformity. The distal femur showed typical for the disease metaphyseal defect in a funnel form of an Erlenmeyer flask. Skeletal X-rays demonstrated typical diffuse sclerosis without differentiation between cortical and spongious bone, affecting skull, pelvis, spine, thorax and upper limb bones. The preoperative hematologic investigation showed severe anemia with Hb 62 g/l, Htc 0.21, platelets 33.10 on 9/l, fibrinogen 6,2 g/l., without any other hematologic impairment. We performed preoperative substitution therapy with erythrocyte concentrate, plasma and platelets concentrate in sterile reanimation conditions. Operative treatment was performed on 20th of February 2012 with Hb 105 g/l, Htc 0,32, platelets 73.10 on 9 /l. Based on AO principles, we decided to perform surgical open reduction of the femoral fracture and fixation with a stable metal osteosynthesis. We used the technique with 120° LCP (Locking Compression Plate) Pediatric hip 5 mm. As we expected, the technical application of the synthesis was difficult due to bone hardness. We used a drill motor with a low speed and high torque, also brand new original steel drill bits. These bits were frequently replaced during the formation of the proximal three holes. Drill holes were inserted for a short distance with constant saline irrigation. Making of each hole took approximately 20 minutes. Perforation of the diaphysis for placement of the distal screws of the plate was not so difficult as was in the femoral neck because we used different, especially prepared for the case, diamond drill bits. These diamond drill bits were too short for the femoral neck length and could fit only for the diaphyseal holes. Duration of operation was 2 hours and 25 minutes with intraoperative blood loss of 270 ml. During proximal screws application appeared additional fissures in the femoral neck. They were detected on postoperative X-rays. These fissures did not compromise the stability of synthesis and the following bone consolidation. The early postoperative period was uneventful and standard antibiotic prophylactic was performed. Kinesitherapy with active movements was started on the first postoperative day. The child was gradually verticalized during the first postoperative week. Education in guided walking was started with a stable walker according to a special physiotherapy program, adapted for blind patients. Treatment continued with substitution therapy for the accompanying aplastic anemia by paediatric hematologist. A new physiotherapy course was performed for education in crutch walking after the third postoperative month. After the sixth month the child walks independently outside home only with a cane. On the X-rays in March 2013 (1 year postoperatively) we see consolidated fracture with a normal femoral neck-shaft angle. Lower leg length discrepancy is below 0.5 cm. Range of motion in the operated hip joint is: active flexion — 90°, extension — 5°, abduction — 30° The patient is painless and her gait substantially improved. The child returned to her specialized for blind school for the new school year. 
Patient was given the option of orthognathic surgery to correct his VME or lip repositioning procedure (LRP) to reduce his gummy smile and improve esthetics. He elected LRP to address the gummy smile and avoid higher morbidity and costs associated with orthognathic surgery. The patient's expectations were clarified, and a realistic outcome was presented, including the possibility of full or partial relapse. Written informed consent was obtained after an explanation of the risks, potential benefits, and treatment alternatives. The aim of the technique lip repositioning is a surgical way to correct gummy smile by limiting the retraction of the elevator smile muscles (orbicularis oris, levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris, zygomaticus minor). Local anesthesia (Mepivacaine 2% with adrenaline 1:80,000) was administered at the vestibular mucosa and lip from the maxillary right to left first molar. The incision outline was marked with an indelible pencil on the dried tissue using mucogingival junction and base of the vestibule as reference lines connected at mesial line angles of the right and left maxillary molars to create an elliptical outlineas. Incisions were made in the surgical area, and both superior and inferior partial thickness flap was raised from maxillary right second premolar to maxillary left second premolar. A partial thickness incision was made between these two lines, and epithelial band approximately 10-12 mm wide was excised leaving underlying connective tissue exposed. Care was taken to avoid damage to any minor salivary glands in the submucosa and tissue tags were removed. The mucosal flap was advanced and multiple interrupted sutures at 1 mm were taken at the midline and other locations along the borders of the incision mucogingival junction using 3-0 vicryl sutures. No periodontal dressing was placed. Immediately postoperatively significant improvement in the patient facial and smile was observed. Post-operative instructions included soft diet, limited facial movements, no brushing around the surgical site for 14 days and placing ice packs over the upper lip. The patient was instructed to rinse gently with 0.2% chlorhexidine gluconate twice daily for 2 weeks. Post-operative Amoxicillin 500 mg and Ibuprofen 400 mg B.D for 5 days were prescribed. Post-operative healing occurred, and the patient reported minimal post-operative bruising, or extraoral swelling and slight pain when smiling for 1 week after surgery. Sutures were removed 2 weeks later. The suture line healed in the form of a scar that was concealed in the upper lip mucosa and not visible when the patient smiled. This esthetic procedure is safe and has minimal side-effects. The patient was recalled after every 3 months for follow-up. Gingival display at baseline was 7-8 mm which changed drastically at 3 and 6 months postoperatively. At 3 months and at 6 months gingival display was 3 mm. There was no difference in gingival display between 3 and 6 months. However, a partial relapse was observed after 12 months. 
This lesion extended throughout the right mandibular crest and had been evolving for 1 month, according to the patient. The neurological examination revealed a unilateral labial-chin hypoaesthesia suggestive of malignancy. The craniofacial CT scan examination revealed an infiltration of the right lateral mandibular soft tissues associated with a poorly-limited osteolytic lesion affecting the mandibular crest in relation to the floating tooth 45. It was associated with bilateral multiple lymph nodes (submandibular, supraclavicular and jugulo-carotid), the largest of which measured 20 mm. 
A biopsy was performed. The histological and immunohistochemical examinations led to the conclusion that the tumour is a large B-cell lymphoma of the mandibular gingiva. Histologically, there were large tumour cells having clear and abundant cytoplasm with nuclei showing several marked atypias. The mitoses and the apoptotic bodies were quite numerous. The tumour was the site of important necrotic changes. In immunohistochemistry, the tumour cells strongly and diffusely expressed CD45 and CD20. They did not express CD3 and CK. 
The patient was referred to the onco-haematology department where a chemotherapy-based treatment was initiated. She showed a clear improvement in her condition after the first cycles. Second case: a 16-year-old male patient with acute articular rheumatism and a history of erysipelas at the age of 7 years was hospitalized in the General Surgery Department because of a deterioration of his general condition. Originally, the patient suffered from epigastralgia, vomiting and an influenza state for which he had a symptomatic treatment. This was aggravated by a progressive onset of pain in the right iliac fossa with diarrhea-like transit disorders. 
He was referred to our department to manage a left mandibular swelling with a suspected abscess of dental origin. The extraoral clinical examination revealed the presence of palpable left cervical lymphadenopathy with normal mouth opening. The intraoral examination showed an extensive gingival mass ranging from teeth 34 to 37 with terminal dental mobilities evolving for 3 weeks. On the neurological examination, the patient described a sensation of hypoaesthesia along the path of the left inferior alveolar nerve. The radiological examination revealed the presence of a bone destruction involving teeth furcation in the left molar region. 
The abdominal CT scan evoked a tumoural mass of the ileocecal junction associated with a peritoneal carcinomatosis as well as multiple mediastinal lymph nodes, the largest of which measured 31*21mm. The biological analyzes showed a significant increase in CRP values at 117 and in LDH at 789 (Table 1), indicating the existence of a biological inflammatory syndrome and tissue damage in the body. HIV serology was negative. In this context, an association between the oral lesion and the abdominal tumour was suspected, suggesting a cancer of lymphomatous origin. 
A biopsy of the oral lesion was performed and the patient was surgically operated for his abdominal tumour in the general surgery department. The results of the anatomopathological examinations were in agreement with our suspicion. It was a Burkitt lymphoma with primary abdominal and secondary oral localisations. Histologically, there was a lymphomatous proliferation of diffuse architecture consisting of small to medium lymphocytes, basophilic cytoplasm with too many mitoses. In the immunohistochemical study, the lymphocytes were of phenotype B expressing markers CD20 (+), CD10 (+) and heterogeneous Bcl6. The tumour proliferation index Ki67 was 100%. 
The postoperative follow-up was straightforward and the patient was referred to the onco-haematology department where a chemotherapy treatment was initiated. Unfortunately, the patient died one month later. 
The exit wound was located in the medial aspect of the left knee. Other external genitalia were normal in inspection. He had no urethral meatus bleeding, but he had a laceration in the left leg. Blood profile tests such as complete blood cell, electrolyte profile, liver function test and coagulation test were normal; there was just a rise in WBC (white blood cell) 14000mg/dl. A focused assessment with ultrasonography for trauma (FAST) did not reveal any free fluid in the abdominal cavity. A plain film of the left leg showed a small fracture in the talus bone. After resuscitation, the patient was transferred to the operation room for urgent scrotal exploration. The patient was informed that an orchiectomy might be required if his testis cannot be repaired. After that, emergency scrotal exploration was done; about 200ml of the hematoma was evacuated, tunica vaginalis and both testes were exposed and completely damaged, and some gunshot fragment was identified and removed. Then, the scrotum was irrigated with 3000ml of normal saline. Debridement of necrotic testicular tissue was subsequently preformed. However, the ruptured testis could not be closed primarily because the extruded seminiferous tubules and the big tissue defect of the tunica albuginea did not allow the apposition of the tunica albugineal edges. Therefore, closure of the tunica albuginea using tunica vaginalis as a graft tissue was done (the free edges of the parietal tunica vaginalis was used to create neocapsulae around the testis parenchymal tissue) by using Vicryl suture bilaterally, and the drain was left in situ. Skin was closed with nylon 3/0. It should be mentioned that vas deference and epididymis were damaged, and we recommended the delayed repair of vas deference and epididymis with microsurgical procedure. Finally, Foley catheter Fr 16 was inserted. The laceration of the left leg was irrigated with 2000ml of normal saline and repaired by an orthoptist. During the same admission, the patient received ceftriaxone 2 gram daily and was under the joint care by the orthopedist. The drain and catheter were removed three-days post-operatively. The patient was discharged one-week later with outpatient follow up. Additionally, a three-week course of cephalexin and ibuprofen was recommended for the patient. Unfortunately, during post-operative period there were some complications in orthopedic and urologic procedures, such as fever and discharge from the site of operation. Additionally, the left testis was not viable and there was a need for orchiectomy during the follow up of one week. Follow-up Doppler ultrasonography at 4 months showed a viable right testis with minimal atrophic change. Four months after the surgery, the patient had normal erection and the anorchide serum hormone concentration such as (serum testosterone level was 6.27ng/ml, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) 120.3nl/ml, luteinizing hormone (LH) 63.69nl/ml and the prolactin level was 11.05ng/ml), which show that the patient had borderline normal hormonal profile. The semen analysis showed the total sperm count: 12 million, volume: 2.5cc, motility: nonviable and normal forms: 70% and the patient was happy with the cosmetic results. Ethical consideration: the patient gave their written informed consent for participation in our study. 
Though there was a history of a fresh still birth during the mother's first confinement, no congenital malformations were seen in that baby and there was no history of congenital anomalies in the extended family. Mother is a 30-year-old teacher and father a 35-year-old police officer and both had a secondary level of education. Physical examination revealed an irregularly shaped well-demarcated large defect on the vertex of the scalp over the parietal bone bilaterally extending to the occipital region measuring 10 x 8 cm in the midline and 6 x 6 cm in the occipital region. A yellow layer of membrane covered the defect. The patient had low set ears, he was irritable, with a tense anterior fontanelle and in respiratory distress. Other system examination were unremarkable. A diagnosis of aplasia cutis congenita with possible meningitis was made. Baby had routine care as per protocol including: oxygen, intravenous fluids, antibiotics at meningitis doses, dressing with sofra-tulle and normal saline soaked gauze. The respiratory distress subsided; oral feeds were eventually commenced and well tolerated. Multidisciplinary team management was done along with neurosurgeons and plastic surgeons. A babygram and an abdominopelvic scan done were normal. The brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed absence of parietal bone towards the vertex bilaterally extending from 2 cm behind the anterior fontanelle down to the posterior fontanelle giving an area of defect measuring 8.3 cm x 5.3 cm (AP X TR). The subcutaneous scalp tissues were not visualized. However, the brain in this region was overlaid by the dural meninges. The occipital, frontal and temporal bones of the cranial vault and their overlying scalp tissues were spared. The cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum and the brain stem structures were normal in morphology and signal intensity. No intra-axial or extra-axial mass or collection seen. No area of abnormal enhancement seen. The cortical sulci, sylvian fissures, basal cisterns and ventricles are normal in calibre, outline and intensity. The orbits and retro-orbital structures are within normal limit. Conclusion: features in keeping with aplasia cutis congenita. Burns and plastic unit and neurosurgeons made plans for future intervention in form of raising a flap cover for autologous skin grafting. Baby was discharged home after 18 days of admission on oral antibiotics and daily wound dressing, for follow up at the specialty clinics. Case 2: baby YA, Hausa by tribe was referred at 48 hours of life on account of absence of part of the skull bone noticed at birth. Baby was delivered per vaginum at home, delivery was not associated with overt trauma to the head. Patient was a product of term gestation; birth weight was unknown though admission weight was 2 kg. Mother was 25-year-old and not gainfully employed, while father was a hospital attendant. Baby was the 3 rd child of parents in a monogamous, non-consanguineous setting; the two older siblings were alive and well. No known family history of congenital anomaly. There was no history of use of herbal medications and mother was not on any other medication. There was no history of exposure to radiation in pregnancy and parents did not live close to a network mask. Mother had no obstetric scan done in pregnancy. Important clinical findings at presentation were a very ill patient, febrile, cyanosed, hypertonic with a midline subcutaneous tissue defect of the scalp extending from the frontal to the occipital area extending to the right parietal region. There was leakage of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from a likely dural involvement. He had desquamating skin, hypoplastic finger and toe nails, visible dilated abdominal wall veins as well as a grade 3 systolic cardiac murmur loudest at the left lower sternal edge. Other systems were essentially normal. A working diagnosis of multiple congenital anomalies (congenital cutis aplasia and congenital heart disease (ventricular septal defect) with meningitis was made. Differentials of Adams-Oliver syndrome and Patau's syndrome were considered. Sepsis screen yielded Providencia specie and E. coli from blood and CSF respectively. Abdominal ultrasound scan was normal, unfortunately, brain MRI, echocardiography and chromosomal studies could not be done due to financial constraints. He was treated with parenteral antibiotics and wound was cleaned daily and dressed with betadine. Complications included CSF leakage and meningitis, which resolved over time. The burns and plastic unit planned for prolene mesh/titanium mesh and latissimus dorsi musculocutaneous flap cover subsequently. Patient was discharged to parents on request after 35 days on admission, however baby died 7 days post discharge. 
The physical examination recorded a temperature of 38.5°C. The neurological exam showed a conscious patient well oriented in space and time who had neither meningeal nor vestibular syndrome. A bilateral paralysis of the sixth cranial nerve was found associated with bilateral hypo-acousia. However, he had no sensori-motor deficit and no neurological localizing signs. An eye fundus revealed a bilateral stage I papilledema. All others clinical examinations were normal. A basic metabolic panel revealed several abnormalities: an elevated C-reactive protein, lymphopenia, hyper-fibrinogenemia, and anemia (Table 1). A cerebral computed tomography scan and magnetic resonance imaging showed normal findings. However, an audiogram showed bilateral perceptive deafness. A lumbar puncture revealed an opening cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure of 350mm of water, protein 0.69 g/L, glucose 0.3mmol/L, and WBC of 60x10 6 /L (80% lymphocytes). An India ink stain was positive for Cryptococcus. CSF and serum cryptococcal antigen tests also returned positive (with titers of 1:10000 and 1:1000 respectively). Blood and CSF culture were positive and revealed the presence of Cryptococcus neoformans. The antifungal sensitivity test was also performed (Table 1). Therefore, a diagnosis of Cryptococcus meningoencephalitis was established. The search for a cause of immunodeficiency that would explain this opportunistic infection, in a seemingly immuno-competent patient, was initiated. The serological testing for hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) were negative (CD4/CD8 ratio was 1.5). Serum protein electrophoresis revealed hypo-albuminemia 23.7 g/l (normal range: 37.7-45.6 g/l) with hypogammaglobulinemia 4.5g/l (normal range:6.4-12.7g/l). Immunofixation electrophoresis detected monoclonal IgA-lambda (IgA-λ) paraproteinemia at 0.6 g/l. The urine immunofixation revealed the presence of Bence Jones proteinuria type light chain lambda at 0.4 g/l. The serum level of IgA, IgG, and IgM concentrations were measured at 4.04 g/l (normal range: 0.80-3.1), 5.4 (normal range 6.5-15), and 0.45 g/l (normal range: 0.55-3.0) respectively. Quantitative evaluation of the free light chains showed excessively high lambda (λ) chains at 183.14 mg/L (normal range: 5.71-26.3 mg/L) and kappa (κ) chains at 9.47 mg/L (normal range: 3.3-19.4 mg/L) with a κ/λ free light chain ratio of < 0.1 (normal range: 0.26-1.65). May-Grunwald-Giemsa stained bone marrow aspirate smears revealed an infiltration of 12% malignant plasma cells with atypically formed and partly bi-or multi-nucleated cells. The β2-microglobulin was elevated at 3.82 mg/L (normal range: 0.8-3 mg/L). Based on these findings, consistent with the International Myeloma Working Group diagnostic criteria, a diagnosis of IgA-λ multiple myeloma was determined. The patient was treated for the Cryptococcal infection with amphotericin B at 0.7 mg/kg/day concurrently with flucytosine at 100 mg/kg/day. Repeated CSF drainage was established to reduce CSF pressure. The induction treatment lasted 21 days, after which the CSF fungi culture became negative and the cryptococcal antigen test in serum and CSF both showed a decrease in antigen titers to 1:10. He was then transitioned to oral fluconazole at 800 mg/day for 12 weeks. Upon the second week of consolidation treatment for the infection, the patient's treatment for IgA lambda type multiple myeloma was initiated with a chemotherapy regimen based on thalidomide, melphalan, and prednisone. The evolution was good without complication. No clinical or imaging examination evidence of neurologic complications was found during nine months after this episode. 
The pain gradually worsened with inability to use the right lower limb. There was associated bluish discolouration of the overlying skin. The patient denied a history of previous trauma or penetrating injury, fever, warmth to touch of the limb, loss of weight or bleeding from other orifices. Neither did the patient consume any anticoagulation therapy, NSAIDS and aspirin, nor did the patient have a previous background of a bleeding disorder or family history of a bleeding disorder. This was the 2 nd episode with a similar episode 4 years ago in 2015 which resolved gradually, the same year he was diagnosed with alcoholic liver disease. The rest of the medical and surgical history was unremarkable. The patient had a significant history of alcohol, drinking approximately 1 to 2 bottles of Whiskey a day during the 9 months prior to this presentation. This followed a period of alcohol cessation after the prior presentation in 2015. At presentation, he had normal blood pressure of 121/68mmHg with a tachycardic of 121beats per minute and a respiratory rate of 18 breaths/ min. He was apyrexial with a temperature of 36.5°C. He was awake and oriented without signs of hepatic encephalopathy and had scleral icterus and leukonychia. Other peripheral stigmata of chronic liver disease were absent. His right thigh had pitting oedema extending from the right foot to his gluteus. A circumferential difference of 11 cm measured around the mid-thigh, and 3 cm measured around the calf, compared to the left limb was present. Ecchymosis was present on the posterior thigh, which extended from the gluteal fold to the popliteal fossa. The thigh was severely tender on palpation with decreased range of motion on both active and passive movement. All distal pulses were present. The abdomen was distended with evidence of ascites, liver span of 4cm and no splenomegaly. The examination findings of other systems were normal. The Investigations performed included a complete blood count which showed severe Macrocytic normochromic anaemia with a haemoglobin of 3.60g/L, in addition to thrombocytopenia with a platelet count of 37 x 10 9 /L and a reticulocyte production index of 1.1%. The international normalised ratio (INR) was 2,68, a prothrombin time (PT) of 31.30 seconds and the partial thromboplastin time (PTT) was 35.2 seconds. His liver panel showed total protein of 65g/L with hypoalbuminemia of 17g/L. The Total Bilirubin was elevated at 149 umol/L and Direct Bilirubin 48 umol/L. Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) at 19 IU/L and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) at 90 IU/L with AST to ALT ratio 4.7suggestive of Alcoholic hepatitis. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) was elevated at 506 IU/L gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) 57 IU/L, C-reactive protein 7.8 mg/l and total white cell count of 10.39x10 9 /L. The patient had a normal urea and creatinine with a hyponatraemia of 128mmol/L. His Iron studies performed revealed Ferritin at 2321.03 ng/ml with serum iron of 6.9 umol/L. His viral screen for hepatitis B and C was negative. A doppler ultrasound illustrated extensive tissue oedema with complex mass extending from the upper thigh to the lower thigh suggestive of a right gastrocnemius haematoma, no thrombus noted in the venous system. The ultrasound of the abdomen showed ascites with an echogenic small liver. The computer tomography angiogram (CT-angio) showed normal non-aneurysmal common iliac, femoral and popliteal arterial vessels. Unfortunately, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was not performed due to local resource constraints. The patient was managed with tranexamic acid 1g eight hourly for a period of 7 days, red cell concentrate (RCC) and 3 units of fresh frozen plasma (FFP) transfusions which were repeated over 3 separate days during hospitalization as well vitamin k 10mg titrated against his serial INR measurements. He was given adequate pain relief and thiamine. He was hospitalized for 17 days, during this period the swelling gradually reduced and then maintained a constant size. Health education on his condition and prognosis was explained at which he requested to be transferred to his local hospital for better family support. He was advised to stop alcohol consumption and follow up with a local social worker for long-term alcohol support. 
He had a positive history of alcohol consumption (an average of 4 bottles of beer per day for 40 years) but stopped drinking 6 years after onset of his symptoms. He also stopped attending social gatherings. He had associated lipoma on the right thigh. He is a known diabetic with hypertensive heart disease on medications. His concerns were both cosmetic and functional. Although the burden was enormous, he was unaware of the availability of aesthetic surgery in our setting till he opened up to a radiologist (during a routine investigation) who refereed him to the plastic surgery clinic. Examination showed an obese looking elderly man in no obvious distress but with a moody affect. His weight was 123 kg and the height was 1.8 metres with a BMI of 38 kg/m 2. His waist circumference was 145 cm compared to the normal for males which is 102 cm. Abdominal girth was 141 cm at the umbilicus and 151 cm at the point of maximal enlargement which is 20 cm below the umbilicus. Musculo-skeletal examination showed bilateral knee tenderness without swelling or crepitus. He also had bilateral gynecomastia and lipoma of the right proximal thigh. A diagnosis of truncal obesity in an elderly man with bilateral gynecomastia, early bilateral knee osteoarthritis, hypertension and diabetes was made and patient was worked up for surgery. The ultrasound of the abdominal wall showed variable thickness with the upper quadrants measuring between 7 and 10 cm while the lower quadrants showed a thickness of about 14 cm on the left and 20 cm on the right. The intra-abdominal fat was also sonologically significant. No organ pathology was demonstrated. Laboratory investigations including serum electrolytes, urea and creatinine, fasting blood sugar, complete blood count, serum protein, serum lipids, liver function test and echocardiography, were done and were all within normal ranges. Patient was reviewed by both the cardiologist and the anesthesiologist and certified fit independently. He was counseled and informed consent obtained for abdominoplasty plus or minus liposuction. Liposuction was later excluded to shorten anaesthesia time and reduce the risk of complications because of his age and co-morbidities. General anesthesia with endotracheal intubation was used after epidural anesthesia failed. About 1.7 litres of Hunstad fluid was also infiltrated essentially for hemostasis and hydro-dissection. Traditional incision for conventional abdominoplasty was used and the protuberant infra-umblical tissue was excised weighing about 8.4 kg. The rectus sheath was plicated in two rows, the umbilicus transposed and the wound closed over two redivac drains, the left in the lower flank and the right in the upper flank. The estimated blood loss was 750 ml and he was transfused two pints of sedimented cells intra-operatively. Post-operative complications included blood transfusion reaction, surgical site infection with partial wound dehiscence. There was periumblical sinus discharging lipoid exudates. All the observed post operative events resolved on wound dressings with povidone iodine and antibiotics. The patient had an amazing improvement in the quality of life and eventual return to his business and social life style. Figure 1, Figure 2, Figure 3, Figure 4, Figure 5 and Figure 6 are different views of images of the patient that shows his pre and post operative looks. He currently walks without a walking stick, drives his car and could use plain trousers and dress corporate, which were previously impossible. He was advised to continue with alcoholic abstinence and dietary control. A year post abdominoplasty, he weighed 116 kg with a BMI of 35.8 kg/m 2, his waist girth and the abdominal girth at the umblical level were 112 cm and 123 cm respectively. The point of maximal enlargement with a circumference of 125 cm located 10 cm below the umbilicus post-operatively compared to a circumference of 151 cm located at 20 cm below the umbilicus pre-operatively. The post operative ultrasound of the abdominal wall showed variable thickness in a range of 1.3 - 4.4 cm. 
She reports chronic pain on the 5 th finger of the hand with progressive enlargement of the finger, paresthesia, tactile pain and swelling of the ulnar region of the hand. On the clinical examination, a painful palpable mass on the phalanx with crepitation was observed, with a limited passive/active proximal interphalangeal joint (PIP) flexion. The volume of the PP5th was considerable. The range of movement of the PIP was 0 degree of extension and 15 degree of flexion. Tinel's Sign and Phalen's Maneuver are negative. Normal range-of-motion of the wrist was observed. Instrumental tests: on anteroposterior and lateral X-ray of the fingers, a complete absorption of the CPC, with an increased dimensions of the phalanx it was noted. Radiographs revealed a well-demarcated and pathologic fracture with cortical thinning of the PP5th, with a radiolucent mass in the diaphysis of the same phalanx. The soft tissue mass was relatively well marginated. The hematochemical analysis excluded the presence of rheumatic disease or an increase of the uric acid levels. Intraoperative findings and surgical technique: surgery was performed in accordance with the technique described by Tsuge in 1989, which consisted in the disarticulation of the fifth metacarpal, together with amputation of the fifth ray of the hand [6]. An axillary block anesthesia was carried out and a tourniquet was applied. Tumor excision was performed through a volar Z-Brunner type incision and dorsal longitudinal extension along the digit. A Y-shaped incision began dorsally at the base of the fifth metacarpal, continued in a diamond form in the dorsal space between the fourth and the fifth metacarpal and ended in a V-shape on the palmar side at the level of the proximal transverse palmar plica. The dorsal skin flap was unglued to expose the fourth dorsal interosseous and the portion of the metacarpus to be resected. After complete bone exposure, the oblique mid-diaphysis osteotomy of the fifth metacarpal was performed, leaving its base in place to maintain distal insertion of the carpal ulnar extensor. Subsequently, the extensor muscle tendon section of the little finger and of the joint extensor tendon of the fifth finger were performed, without injuring the common extensor tendon of the fourth finger. The hypotensive intrinsic muscles were leaved, while the fifth abductor tendon was distal sectioned and sutured to the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle. After ligature of the common digital vessels at their base, the corresponding nerve endings were cauterized at the same level and pushed into the interosseous muscular tissue. Then the deep intermetacarpal ligament was incised, stretched transversely between the head of the fourth and fifth metacarpal bone. Finally, the distal portion of the fifth metacarpal bone was removed. At this point, the abductor tendon of the fifth finger was sutured on the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle, to fill the gap created by the fifth metacarpal bone removal. The skin flap was sutured first to the palm. Secondary, the skin was sutured to the dorsal hand where the skin, thin and mobile, is more easily modeled. A soft bandage was then applied to the patient's forearm with the fourth and third fingers included. 
Functional rehabilitation program started at two weeks post-operatively and it was designed in order to increase the range of motion and the strength of the hand grip. Histological analysis revealed a benign expansive EC of the hand. The patient resumes her job at the factory after 2 months. One year after surgery, clinical and a radiographic assessment were carried out. The patient reported the absence of any subjective problems, with complete functional recovery of the operated hand. She was satisfied with the cosmetic results that had been achieved and the hand functionality. 
The blood pressure was 180/110 mmHg. Furthermore, the obstetric ultrasound showed a positive foetal cardiac activity. Laboratory test results showed 4+ proteinuria, hemoglobin at 13 g/dl; aspartate aminotransferase (AST) at 290 IU/l; alanine aminotransferase (ALT) at 193 IU/l, platelets count at 383000 /uL, total bilirubin at 37 mg/L and direct bilirubin at 21 mg/L. Elseways, the renal function and the prothrombin time (PT) were normal. We administered antihypertension drugs (a bolus dose of intravenous (IV) nicardipine and PO methyldopa: 500 mg every 8 hours), and the patient was started on magnesium sulfate for seizure prophylaxis. Considering the risk of a preterm delivery, she also received also betamethasone for fetal lung maturity. However, those symptomatic treatments were inefficient, so the decision was taken for immediate cesarean delivery indicated for maternal rescue. 
Within 2 days of delivery, the patient installed an intense epigastric pain, the hemoglobin dropped to 9,1 g/dl, AST rose to 2809 IU/l and ALT to 2502 IU/l, platelets count decreased to 77000 /ul, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) was at 1209 U/L, prothrombin time (PT) was at 61% and blood glucose level was normal. The renal function was also disturbed (serum creatinine increased to 16 mg/l and urea achieved 1,58 g/l). Then, based on all above, we diagnosed the patient with HELLP syndrome and she was immediately transferred to the medical intensive care unit (MICU) for suspicion of liver subcapsular hematoma complicating the HELLP syndrome. Arriving to the MICU, the patient still had the epigastric pain. The physical examination objectified a blood pressure at 130/90 mmHg, heart beats at 140 per minute, temperature at 37.1 o C, with sensitivity of the right hypochondrium and decreased breath sounds. The ultrasonic images showed a hyperechoic areas interesting different hepatic segments with massive hydrothorax. We completed paraclinical investigations by a thoraco-abdominopelvic CT, it objectified the absence of spontaneous hemorrhagic hyperdensity and the existence of diffuse hypodense plaques, poorly limited, not enhanced after injection, interesting all hepatic segments, more marked on the right hepatic lobe. The vascular permeability of the portal and subhepatic was preserved. Those CT images correspond to massive hepatic infarction. Otherwise, the CT scan also showed the presence of an intra-peritoneal and pleural effusions. Once the diagnosis of HELLP syndrome with massive hepatic infarction was confirmed, we continued to treat the patient with antihypertension drugs (PO nicardipine and PO methyl dopa), preventive anticoagulant treatment and proton pump inhibitor. During the surveillance, the patient installed a polypnea with an aggravation of pleural effusion on chest X-ray, she became febrile and the biological features worsened (hemoglobin = 4,6 g/dl; platelets count = 20000 /ul; WBC = 26000 /ul; CRP = 340 mg/l; albumin = 16 g/l, prothrombin time (PT) = 50%). Then, the patient received antibiotics (4g piperacillin / 0.5g tazobactam given every six hours for 14 days and 15 mg/kg amikacin per day as a single daily dose for 3 days), she was transfused two units of packed red blood cells and seven units of platelets concentrates, she also received albumin 20 g/day with the pleural effusion drainage. Within 6 days, the patient has improved clinically, liver function tests began to downtrend by postoperative day 5, the biological results were normalized within 11 days, the damaged hepatic areas stayed stable for 15 days as shown by a control CT scan. So, at day 17 the patient was discharged with maintained follow-ups. 
This lesion extended throughout the right mandibular crest and had been evolving for 1 month, according to the patient. The neurological examination revealed a unilateral labial-chin hypoaesthesia suggestive of malignancy. The craniofacial CT scan examination revealed an infiltration of the right lateral mandibular soft tissues associated with a poorly-limited osteolytic lesion affecting the mandibular crest in relation to the floating tooth 45. It was associated with bilateral multiple lymph nodes (submandibular, supraclavicular and jugulo-carotid), the largest of which measured 20 mm. 
A biopsy was performed. The histological and immunohistochemical examinations led to the conclusion that the tumour is a large B-cell lymphoma of the mandibular gingiva. Histologically, there were large tumour cells having clear and abundant cytoplasm with nuclei showing several marked atypias. The mitoses and the apoptotic bodies were quite numerous. The tumour was the site of important necrotic changes. In immunohistochemistry, the tumour cells strongly and diffusely expressed CD45 and CD20. They did not express CD3 and CK. 
The patient was referred to the onco-haematology department where a chemotherapy-based treatment was initiated. She showed a clear improvement in her condition after the first cycles. Second case: a 16-year-old male patient with acute articular rheumatism and a history of erysipelas at the age of 7 years was hospitalized in the General Surgery Department because of a deterioration of his general condition. Originally, the patient suffered from epigastralgia, vomiting and an influenza state for which he had a symptomatic treatment. This was aggravated by a progressive onset of pain in the right iliac fossa with diarrhea-like transit disorders. 
He was referred to our department to manage a left mandibular swelling with a suspected abscess of dental origin. The extraoral clinical examination revealed the presence of palpable left cervical lymphadenopathy with normal mouth opening. The intraoral examination showed an extensive gingival mass ranging from teeth 34 to 37 with terminal dental mobilities evolving for 3 weeks. On the neurological examination, the patient described a sensation of hypoaesthesia along the path of the left inferior alveolar nerve. The radiological examination revealed the presence of a bone destruction involving teeth furcation in the left molar region. 
The abdominal CT scan evoked a tumoural mass of the ileocecal junction associated with a peritoneal carcinomatosis as well as multiple mediastinal lymph nodes, the largest of which measured 31*21mm. The biological analyzes showed a significant increase in CRP values at 117 and in LDH at 789 (Table 1), indicating the existence of a biological inflammatory syndrome and tissue damage in the body. HIV serology was negative. In this context, an association between the oral lesion and the abdominal tumour was suspected, suggesting a cancer of lymphomatous origin. 
A biopsy of the oral lesion was performed and the patient was surgically operated for his abdominal tumour in the general surgery department. The results of the anatomopathological examinations were in agreement with our suspicion. It was a Burkitt lymphoma with primary abdominal and secondary oral localisations. Histologically, there was a lymphomatous proliferation of diffuse architecture consisting of small to medium lymphocytes, basophilic cytoplasm with too many mitoses. In the immunohistochemical study, the lymphocytes were of phenotype B expressing markers CD20 (+), CD10 (+) and heterogeneous Bcl6. The tumour proliferation index Ki67 was 100%. 
The postoperative follow-up was straightforward and the patient was referred to the onco-haematology department where a chemotherapy treatment was initiated. Unfortunately, the patient died one month later. 
There was associated pain as the child was said to cry whenever the swelling was touched. This was said to be after the incision and drainage. There was also limitation of movement at the elbow joint as the swelling spread to involve the elbow joint. A few days after the incision of the swelling, which was 6 weeks before presentation the child developed a low grade intermittent fever which was temporarily relieved by paracetamol. Various herbal preparations were applied to the swelling along with oral administration of over the counter drugs with no improvement. Mother did not book for antenatal care though pregnancy was said to be uneventful with no history of early rash with fever or exposure to irradiation. Mother took herbal preparations for about a month from the 7 th month of gestation. She did not take any other known drugs. She delivered via spontaneous vaginal delivery at term at a traditional birth attendant's home. Physical examination revealed an infant who was mildly pale, afebrile (T=37°C), anicteric, not cyanosed, and had a left axillary lymphadenopathy measuring 1cm in diameter, firm, mobile and non tender. Examination of the musculoskeletal system showed a large swelling on the left forearm involving the elbow and upper part of the arm, the overlying skin was hyperaemic and had dilated veins. The swelling which measured 12cm by 10cm was firm, tender with some fluctuant areas. An ulcer measuring 5cm by 8cm was seen on the medial aspect of the extensor surface of the forearm. The edge was raised, the base indurated and the floor had dirty slough. Other systems were essentially normal. An initial diagnosis of soft tissue tumour probably Rhabdomyosarcoma was made. An initial full blood count done was suggestive of sepsis for which the patient was commenced on intravenous Ceftriaxone, and Gentamicin which were irregular due to fianancial constraints. She also had daily dressing of the ulcer. A week into the admission, a wedge excisional biopsy was done and the histology report showed a small blue cell tumour with the following as possibilities; Desmoplastic small cell tumour, Ewing sarcoma, Lymphoma, and Embryonal Rhabdomyosarcoma. Immunohistochemistry test done at another center using membranous staining with MIC2 (12E7) antigen (CD99) gave a final diagnosis of Ewing's sarcoma. An initial chest x-ray done was normal. X-ray of the left forearm showed erosion of the ulna bone. Other investigations such as wound swab microscopy and culture, blood culture and liver function tests were ordered for but were not done because of financial difficulties. A month after admission, disarticulation of the left arm with an above elbow amputation was performed, and the child was to commence adjuvant chemotherapy with vincristine, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide. However, her parents were unable to procure cytotoxic drugs due to financial constraints. On the 48 th day of admission, a swelling was noticed over the thoracolumbar spine, which was suspected to be a metastatic lesion. An X-ray of the thoracolumbar spine was requested but was never done due to financial constraints. She continued to have intermittent pyrexia despite treatment with intravenous ceftriaxzone which was later changed to ceftazidime. She also received oral antibiotics when parents could not afford intravenous drugs and antimalarials. She later developed acute watery diarrhea with mild dehydration for which she was given oral rehydration solution. She had a total of three full blood count tests done throughout her hospital stay which were suggestive of sepsis and also electrolytes and urea during the diarrhoeal episode which was essentially normal except for low bicarbonate which was corrected. The patient eventually succumbed to probable sepsis as an immediate cause of death and died after two months on admission. 
There has been no known exposure to COVID- 19 and has no known vice or allergy. 
In addition, the clinical examination found a temperature (T°) of 38.6°C; tachycardia at 117 beats/minute, oxygen saturation of 86%; blood pressure of 90/50mm Hg. The neurological examination was not further investigated due to the clinical condition of the patient. He was transferred to the intensive care unit, put on oxygen and antipyretic medication and vascular filling with crystalloids (30ml/kg), while waiting for the result of the metabolic workup, which proved normal. The biological investigation revealed some disorders including: a non-specific inflammatory syndrome with a sedimentation rate (SV) at 62mm/h; a C-reactive protein (CRP) at 36mg/l and white blood cells > 12000/ mm³. While in hospital, the patient presented with repeated paroxysmal seizures within a short period of time, without a return to normal consciousness between seizures. The diagnosis of status with septic shock was made and the patient strictly followed the protocol for the management of status epilepticus (Clonazepam 1ml + Phenobarbital 60mg/kg by slow infusion + Thiopental 5mg/kg as a bolus). He did a brain CT scan which did not reveal any specifics. The intercritical EEG tracing performed revealed a 4-5Hz theta activity, ample, symmetrical, bilateral, and associated with epileptogenic graphoelements of diffuse point type accentuated in the right hemisphere, suggesting multifocal epilepsy. 
The COVID-19 PCR confirmatory test that was performed at admission was later (24h) positive and the D-dimer level was 2340μg/ L. The patient was transferred to the national COVID-19 case management center and subjected to chloroquine sulfate 500mg/day. This molecule was later discontinued on the neurologist's recommendation due to the paroxysmal recurrence of seizures. Several other tracings were requested but were not performed due to the non-availability of EEG in the said structure. He later received corticosteroid therapy and the rest of the management was symptomatic. After 1 month without seizures, following 2 RT-PCR tests, the patient was discharged with a prescription issued by the Neurologist. Case N°2: patient aged 11 years, followed at the National Center for the Management of Persons Infected with COVID-19 for influenza-like illness, respiratory distress and confirmed positive under treatment with chloroquine sulfate 500mg/day, Azythromycin 250mg/day. After 1 week of treatment, loss of consciousness with generalized tonic-clonic seizure, lateral biting of the tongue, hyper salivation and loss of urine occurs. There is no personal or family history of epileptic seizures. According to the mother, the delivery took place in better condition. The clinical examination found respiratory difficulty, tachycardia at 123 beats/minute but apyretic. The neurological examination in the inter critical phase found persistent mental confusion for more than 1 hour. The metabolic balance sheet is within the limits of normal, the other biological parameters reveal a non-specific inflammatory syndrome. The electrocardiogram (ECG) showed a heart rhythm disorder. Brain CT scan and intercranial EEG were not performed urgently. We recommended discontinuation of chloroquine sulfate and initiation of clonazepam 1ml intravenous (IV) benzodiazepam as needed. Background antiepileptic [levitracetam (keppra 500g/day)] was instituted following the second seizure. After recovery from the COVID-19 infection, and the absence of seizure for 3 weeks following the new treatment recommendations, we performed a brain scan and EEG, which were found to be normal. The patient was discharged and recommended for neurological surveillance. Case N°3: patient aged 16 years, followed at the national center for the management of COVID-19 positive cases. Patient was asymptomatic on admission. No known drug defects or allergies. Following a voluntary RT-PCR test that the patient performed, he was diagnosed positive for COVID-19 and started treatment with chloroquine sulfate 500mg/day, azythromycin 250 mg/day. After 4 days of treatment, a loss of consciousness with Bravais Jacksonian clonic seizures of the right hemicorps occurred. No personal or family history of epileptic seizures is found. 
The clinical examination does not reveal any particularities. There was no postcritical confusion and the rest of the neurological examination was normal. The diagnosis of focal epilepsy with roladic paroxysm was made. The metabolic assessment was within normal limits, the other biological parameters revealed a non-specific inflammatory syndrome. We recommended discontinuation of chloroquine sulfate and initiation of clonazepam 1ml IV benzodiazepine as needed. Levitracetam 500g/day was instituted following a repeat attack within 48 hours after discontinuation of chloroquine. The patient was discharged with 16 days of seizure-free follow-up and 2 negative RT-PCR tests. Brain CT scan and EEG performed after recovery showed no detectable abnormalities. 
Patient also denied any histories of allergy to food or drugs as well as history of family with the same complain. History of immunization was unknown. The patient had been treated at the local hospital in multiple occasions with both oral medication and ointments, but the complaints did not show any improvement. The patient was in an otherwise healthy condition with a body weight of 64 kg. Dermatological examination of the right knee showed erythematous plaque with verrucous surface, elevated edge and erythematous base accompanied by crusting. Left dorsum pedis showed erythematous macules and plaques accompanied by crusting. The differential diagnosis of this patient included tuberculosis verrucosa cutis, lupus vulgaris, chromoblastomycosis, and neurodermatitis, with tuberculosis verrucosa cutis as the working diagnosis. Laboratory test showed leukocytosis (11,350/uL) while other results of complete blood test, blood sugar, and liver functions were within normal range. Examination of pus and skin scraping by Ziehl Nielsen staining did not reveal any acid-resistant bacilli (AFB). Skin scraping examination with 10% KOH revealed no hyphae, spores nor muriform bodies. There was no visible fungus growth in tissue culture with saboraud agar. Chest radiograph did not show any abnormalities. Mantoux test showed negative result (induration of 9 mm). Histopathological examination of skin tissue from the left knee showed pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia of the epidermis and diffuse lymphocytic and neutrophil inflammation infiltrate in the superficial dermis extending to the epidermis, perivascular areas, and the interstitial middle and deep dermis. Periodic acid Schiff (PAS) staining did not show presence of fungal elements. The final conclusion of the histopathological examination was suppurative chronic inflammation which can be found in deep mycosis and cutaneous TB. Due to this inconclusive result, further tests in the form of M. tuberculosis culture with skin tissue sample, Interferon-gamma release assays (IGRA) test with ELISA method using blood sample, and examination of M. tuberculosis (MTb) with GeneXpert method using tissue sample, were carried out. MTb examination using GeneXpert method and culture after four weeks failed to demonstrate the presence and growth of M. tuberculosis, respectively. However, the result of IGRA examination was positive. Based on the history taking, physical examination, and supporting tests, the patient was diagnosed with tuberculosis verrucosa cutis and given category 1 antituberculosis therapy trial. Based on the 64 kg body weight of the patient, four tablets of fixed dose combination antituberculosis drugs each consisted 150 mg rifampicin, 75mg isoniazid, 275 mg etambuthol, and 400 mg pyrazinamide were given once daily for 4 weeks. In addition, B Complex tablet was also prescribed once daily. After 21 days of treatment, thinning of the plaque and significant improvement of the pruritus were observed. In addition, there were no adverse reactions reported by the patient. Therefore, the regimen was continued for two months before being converted to the maintenance phase in the third month. In the maintenance phase, two tablets of fixed combination drugs each consisted of 75 mg isoniazid dan 150 mg rifampicin were given. At the end of the six-month treatment, a significant improvement was evident. 
An assessment of failute to trive (FTT) with acyanotic heart disease and right bronchopnemonia (treated) was made. An echocardiography was made with a diagnosis of Ventricular Septal Defect (VSD) and Patent Ductus Arteriosus (PDA) and patient was scheduled for surgery for VSD closure and PDA ligation. Other investigations FBC, serum electrolytes, urea and creatinine were all within normal ranges. An American Society of Anaesthesiology (ASA) grade of 2 was made and patient prepared for surgery the next day. She was fasted from 12 midnight for solid foods and allowed for breast feeding till 3:00 am. A peripheral line of 24G was secured the morning of the surgery. In the theatre, standard monitoring (electrocardiogram and pulse oximeter) was attached. The patient was sedated with ketamine 5mg and midazolam 0.5mg and manual ventilation started with 100% oxygen. An arterial line was inserted in the right radial artery with 24G canula for invasive blood pressure monitoring. The child was then intubated with 4.5 uncuffed tube facilitated by vecuronium 0.5mg and mechanically ventilation was started at tidal volume of 50mls/breath and respiratory rate adjusted to between 28-30 cycles/minutes. Intermittent fentanyl was used for analgesia as per requirement and isoflurane used for maintenance of anaesthesia. Central venous cannulation was inserted on the right internal jugular with triple lumen 4.5Fr. Surgery for VSD repair and PDA ligation started as per scheduled. After full heparinisation, cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was commenced, which lasted for 55mins. Total aortic cross clamp time was 55 minutes patient was successfully weaned off from CPB. ECG waveform was in normal sinus rhythm but invasive radial artery blood pressure monitoring showed dampened waveform. On palpation, normovolumic carotid artery pulsations on both sides were present equally. Proximal aortic arch palpation by surgeon was also normal. Protamine was given to reverse the effect of heparin. After chest closure, other arterial pulses were checked (left radial, femoral and dorsalis pedis) and revealed no pulsation. The peripheral extremities were also cold. The chest was immediately reopened after sternotomy. Inspection of the distal aortic arch by the surgeon revealed Interrupted aortic arch with aberrant right subclavian artery and PDA was supplying to both upper and lower limb. The patient was again placed on bypass and DHCA commenced gradually to a target of 16°C. Ice packs were also placed on the head of the patient. It took 20 minutes to achieve DHCA at 16°C and this (DHCA) lasted for 33 minutes while the subclavian artery was attached to the ascending aorta and descending aorta. The temperature was now gradually brought up to 35.7°C over 22 minutes. Heparin was reversed by Protamine. Adrenaline infusion (1.5mg/50mls) was started at 0.5mls/hour. Milrinone infusion (10mg/50mls) was started at 0.3mls/hr) and sildenafril (0.5mg/ml) started at 1.4mls/hr. Fresh frozen plasma and whole blood were transfused into the patient. Vital signs at end of surgery were BP- 79/37, HR-134, sp0 2 -100%, temperature at 35.2. Second surgery lasted 3 hours 10 minutes. At the end of the surgery in the theatre. The patient was transferred to ICU following surgery with endotracheal tube Insitu. In the ICU, combination of fentanyl and midazolam infusion were added to the drugs the patient was already on and stopped after 5 hours in the ICU. The Child was found to be have poor urine output and was placed on continuous furosemide infusion (20mg/20mls at 0.5 mls/hour. Intravenous paracetamol 75mg 8 hourly, pantoprazole 5mg 12 hourly, methyl prednisolone 50mg 12 hourly. The child was mechanically ventilated through the night. On 1 Day Post Operation (1DPO), meropenem was started for the child. Also, albumin was given because of low albumin. Milrinone was stopped and levosimendan (125mg/ml) commenced at 0.25mls/hr on 2DPO. Mgso4 and potasium chloride infusion were also given over some hours to correct hypomagnesemia and hypokalemia. The patient continued to be mechanically ventilated in ICU. On day 3 post OP, amino acid was commenced (astymin). Vital sign maintained on average of 75/55mmhg, sp0 2 100%, TDV 62mls, PEWEP 5, RR 30(still mechanically ventilated). Dexmedetomidine was commenced at 0.2mls/hour. Extubation of the child was done later in the afternoon and patient remained hemodynamically stable on intravenous fluid 4L/min of oxygen. Echocardiography done on the 4 day post op showed an expected performance of the heart. Oral rehydration salt (ORS) was commenced for the child. Sildenafil was commenced orally at 6.25mg 6 hourly at the same day. Aldactone was also commenced orally at 6.25mg 12 hourly 5 day post saw the commencement of oral feeds with adrenaline infusion tapered down and stopped. levosimendan and dexmedetomidine infusion were continued. IVF 5mls/hour was continued. There were also intravenous meronem, paracetamol, pantocid, furosemide, tabs sildenafil and aldactone. Arterial line was removed. On 6DPO, levosimendan and dexmedetomidine infusion were stopped. Potassium containing oral feeds was introduced. Chest X-ray revealed left lung collapse and improvised intermittent CPAP with oxygen over water was commenced with ongoing chest physiotherapy. 8DPO saw the removal of NG tube and central line. On 9DPO, Meronem, PCM and IV furosemide were stopped while tabs furosemide, oral paracetamol and oral cefuroxime were started. Oral Antimalaria (ACT) was also started. On 11DPO, the Child was discharged home conscious, alert, active and recuperating well and post operative visit scheduled for 4 weeks. 
There was no similar case in her family and entourage. On examination, the patient had a poor general condition, a functional impotence when walking. The palpebral mucous membranes were pale and the bulbar mucous membranes anicterical. There was an infectious syndrome with a fever at 40ºC and a steady tachycardia at 100 beats/minute. Her weight was 12 kg for a height of 1 meter (body mass index at 12). The dermatological examination found a large, indurated, erythematous, warm plaques, that was mobile with respect to the deep plane, adhering to the superficial plane. The edges were clearly delineatable by the fingers, interestingly the lower limbs, the back, and the abdomen. The pubis and the vulva were also indurated. On this large plaque, there were hollow ulcers of variable size (n = 3), with polycyclic contours and fibrinous, necrotic bottom and detached edges. The peri-ulcer area wasn't pigmented. The back of the left foot was the site of lymphoedema. There was no damage to the mucous membranes and integuments. The left knee was blocked in flexion causing a functional impotence to walk. Bilateral and inflammatory inguinal lymphadenopathy were noted. The examination of the other organs was normal: no hepatomegaly, no splenomegaly; the pulmonary fields were free. From this symptomatology we evoked diagnostic hypotheses of Buruli ulcer category 3 in the first time. Ziehl Nielsen staining and polymerase chain reaction for Mycobacterium ulcerans by gene amplification of a specific genome sequence, IS2404 was negative. Direct examination of a punch biopsy sample shows yeasts and mycelial filaments. Complementary examinations included: hypochromic microcytic anemia, leukocytosis at 19.5 10 9 /L with a predominance of eosinophils at 11% or 2.15 10 9 /L (215/ mm 3). The C-reactive protein was positive at 192mg/L. Serologies for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis B infection were negative. In histopathology, the epidermis is well differentiated and discreetly orthokeratotic. The dermis is the site of significant inflammatory fibrosis. Inflammation is polymorphic with numerous eosinophilic polynuclear cells associated with epithelioid granulomas and giganto-cellular granulomas. The granulomas are centered by extracellular eosinophilic masses and bulky mycelial filaments (Splendore-Hoeppli phenomenon), which led to basidiobolomycosis. From these results, the diagnosis of ulcerated disseminated basidiobolomycosis in an immunocompetent girl was retained. The mycological culture and polymerase chain reaction to identify the germ weren't done because of technical reasons. The patient was put on ketoconazole (100 mg per day) combined with a correction of anemia using oral iron suspension of 5 mg per day and her nutrititional status by enriched porridges and a high protein diet. Transaminase assay was done at the start of the treatment and then every two weeks for monitoring. Surgical management was carried out, consisting initially of a detachment of ulcers, then secondarily a cutaneous mesh transplant to promote the healing of large ulcers. The correction of the flexum, the recovery of the extremities of limbs and walking, as well as the management of lymphoedema were carried out by the physiotherapists. Progression was favorable after 14 weeks of complete medical treatment, lymphoedema, flexum correction, and ulcer healing. There was no recidivism after 6 months and then one year of follow-up. 
Cranial nerve examination revealed palatal weakness with an impaired gag and cough reflex; a nasal quality in speech too was observed along with normal extra-ocular movements. Further neurological examination was consistent with normal motor, sensory and cerebellar functions. While auscultating the patient's chest, normal heart sounds were heard and scattered crepitations were appreciated over bilateral lung fields. Being a hypertensive male, as this patient had an acute presentation of symptoms and reported no diurnal variation in intensity of bulbar weakness or fatiguability, a diagnosis of MG was not initially thought of. Instead, it was diagnosed as acute ischemic stroke that seemed like a probable partial Wallenberg (medullary) syndrome. A 1.5 tesla magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain with MR angiogram revealed no abnormalities. Considering a diffusion negative stroke, the patient was admitted; antiplatelets, low molecular weight heparin, neurotropics, antihypertensives and statins were commenced. Nasogastric (NG) tube insertion was planned to prevent aspiration of food. Routine blood investigations, thrombophilia blood workup, a 2D echocardiogram, 24-hour holter monitoring were ordered as part of young stroke workup, all of which yielded normal results. During hospital stay, the patient had difficulty in articulation of speech, elevated blood pressures on several occasions, persistent nasal speech and also developed mild breathlessness on the third day of admission. However, breathlessness gradually reduced after treating with nebulized bronchodilators and nebulized corticosteroids, his high blood pressure was controlled with optimization of antihypertensives. Upon discharge after a week, the patient was doing better, but signs of bulbar weakness (hyponasal voice, nasal regurgitation) were persistent; thus, it was decided to continue feeding via nasogastric tube to prevent further aspiration of food. Upon review a week later, the patient initially reported having some improvements in his symptoms and this provided a false sense of assurance. During subsequent follow up consultation after a month, there was still noticeable palatal weakness and associated dysphagia. In view of persistent symptoms, a fluoroscopic evaluation of deglutition was conducted, which revealed weakness in the base of tongue and palatal muscles hindering normal deglutition. A flexible endoscopic study rendered the patient not fit for taking food orally. Thus, NG tube was kept in-situ. It is to be noted that antiplatelets and statins were being continued with good compliance. A month later, the patient presented with further worsening of symptoms, he was also noticed to have drooping of his eyelids, chewing difficulty with diurnal variation and increasing generalized fatiguability. Examination of oral cavity revealed a furrowed/fissured appearance of tongue with atrophy as well. Keeping a probability of myasthenia gravis as a differential diagnosis, a repetitive nerve stimulation (RNS) test and estimation of acetyl choline receptor (AchR) antibody in serum were planned immediately. Along with that, a low dose of pyridostigmine too was commenced. As anticipated, the RNS was suggestive of generalised MG, AChR antibody was strongly positive (17nmol/L, normal- < 0.4nmol/L). This was followed by the commencement of a full-fledged therapy with neostigmine (30mg), pyridostigmine (300mg) and oral prednisolone (10mg). The patient was then reviewed in two weeks after performing a computerized tomography (CECT) scan of the thorax which fortunately revealed no thymoma. He showed significant improvement in his bulbar weakness and fatiguability. The same regimen was repeated for two more months resulting in marked reduction in symptoms, weaning him off his NG tube and he finally became symptom free by the end of three months. During review in the last week of March 2020, he was asymptomatic. On examination of his tongue, which was previously fissured/furrowed and atrophied (a rare finding in AchR antibody positive MG [1]), there was notable improvement upon continuing the same line of management. 
At the vaginal examination, there was a vaginal cup instead of the introitus, with the perception of a painful pelvic mass across in favor of hematometrocolpos. Ultrasonography showed a normal-sized uterus with the presence of normal ovaries, tubes, cervix and a fluid retention at the emptiness line of the uterus continuing into the upper third segment of the vagina in relation with a hematometrocolpos and an absence of the lower third segment of the vagina. Pelvic MRI showed an anteverted uterus of 91 mm in height, 49 mm in thickness and 55 mm in width, with fluid retention at the emptiness line of the uterus continuing into the vaginal cavity. It measured 43 mm height, 21 mm wide and 17 mm deep and was probably in favor of a hematometrocolpos. The junctional zone was thickened to 12 mm and the myometrium was homogeneous, with presence of normal tubes and ovaries. The cervix was dilated by the retained fluid but had normal morphology and 44 mm of length. The lower third segment of the vagina was not seen on the MRI. Hormonal analyzes were within normal limits and her karyotype showed 46XX. The diagnosis of congenital vaginal agenesis on functional uterus was retained. Prior to the operation, she received an informed consultation on the prognosis of her fertility. 
 A verbal and written consent for the procedure was collected from her legal guardian. The patient underwent then a perineal vaginoplasty. The technique used consisted of vaginal traction of the upper two-thirds of the normally formed vagina followed by subcutaneous fixation, thus forming a neo-introitus. We began with a transverse incision of the vaginal cup. We dissected the fibrous masking material until the normal vagina was reached. At this point the collected blood was drained. The introduction of the hysterometer allowed us to check the uterine emptiness and the normal length of its bottom. The normal vaginal mucosa was then drawn and attached to the subcutaneous border by single points spaced by 5 mm each in a radial disposition. The new introitus obtained was kept open by silicone vaginal probes lubricated with estrogen gel until re-epithelialization occurred. Blood loss was quantified at 150 ml. The operating time was 114 minutes. 
The cicatrisation was completed in 4 weeks. The evolution was marked by the appearance of regular cycles with marked improvement of pelvic pain. The nine-year retreat allowed us to review a 23-year-old married woman with a newborn baby boy and a fully satisfied sex life. Consent for publication: written informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of this case report and any accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the Editor-in-Chief of this journal. Ethics approval and consent to participate: ethics approval has been obtained to proceed with the current study. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for participation in this publication. 
A syndrome of inflammation (sedimentation rate (SV): 49 mm in the first hour, fibrinogen: 5.1 g/l, CRP: 86 mg/l), as well as liver cytolysis (ASAT: 348UI/L, ALAT: 49UI/L, GGT: 96UI/L, Alkaline phosphatases: 158UI/L, total bilirubin: 59 mg/l). Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) is 1234UI/L, triglycerides 5.72 mmol/l (N: 0.35-1.7) and ferritinemia 2017 g/l (N: 30-400). Infectious balance is negative (blood cultures, serology of atypical germs, PCR of Herpes viridae, Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV1), Herpes simplex virus 2(HSV2), Parvovirus, varicella zoster virus (VZV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), Human Herpesvirus (HHV6) and (HHV8), Sputum stain for Koch bacillus (BK) and gene-expert are negatives, coprocultures and PCR of gastrointestinal tract are negatives). The myelogram is rich with the presentation of very many images of hemophagocytosis, compatible with MAS. An axillary lymphadenopathy developed one week after the patient's admission, 1 cm x 1 cm in diameter, mobile, solid, painful; removal of the lymphadenopathy is carried out as an emergency procedure. The anatomopathological study revealed a modified and infiltrated architecture of an essentially mononuclear inflammatory element arranged in layers with a few giant cells and fibrosis of the lymph node pulp scattered with rare cells with enlarged nuclei with a prominent nucleolus and a clear cytoplasm that is fairly abundant and poorly limited in favor of scleroderodular LH. The immunohistochemical study found positive anti-CD 30 antibodies, anti MUM1 positive, anti CD15 negative and anti PAX 5 inconclusive antibodies. This result is compatible with LH bone marrow infiltration. The diagnosis of stage IVb scleroderodular LH is retained. For extension assessment and given the limited resources available in our context for a PET scan, a cervico-thoraco-abdomino-pelvic CT scan shows mediastinal and left axillary lymph node involvement associated with homogenous hepato-splenomegaly and multiple effusions. Hepatitis B virus (HBV), Hepatitis C virus (HCV) and the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) viral serology are negative and the echocardiography shows an ejection fraction of 75%. Patient receives 4 courses of dexamethazone 40 mg/day then ABVD (Doxorubicin 25 mg/m 2 /d, Vinblastine 6 mg/m 2 /d, Bleomycin 10 mg/m 2 /d, Dacarbazine 375 mg/m 2 /d on aay 1 and day 15) for 8 courses of treatment with a partial remission then ICE second ligne protocol (Etoposide 100 mg /m 2 /d IV day 1 to day 3, Holoxan 5g/m 2 /d to day 2, Mesna 6g/m 2 to day 2, Carboplatin formula AUC 5 to day 2 for 4 cures with good evolution. 
The patient was apyretic. Arterial gas testing showed normal corrected anion gap metabolic acidosis, with hypokalaemia at 3 mmol/L and normal lactatemia at 0.43 mmol/L. Diagnosis of diabetes decompensation was made despite absence of ketone bodies on urine dipstick test. After conditioning, the patient was put on a hydration regimen with hypokalaemia correction and insulin therapy, and then referred to intensive care for additional management in face of non-improvement in his neurological condition. A brain scan was performed objectifying multiple parietal ischemic foci, chest scanner showed a thickening of the septal and foci of bronchial dilation without sign of pneumopathy linked to COVID-19 infection; abdominal ultrasound did not show any abnormalities. An electrocardiogram was performed showing no electrical signs of hypokalaemia or repolarization disturbances, transthoracic echocardiography was normal, as was ultrasound of supraortic trunks. Laboratory workup showed an elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) of 45.5 with negative procalcitonin (0.04 ng/ml), white blood cells at 12,500 (PNN at 9280 and normal lymphocytes at 2140), no thrombocytopenia, normal ferritinemia, fibrinogen levels elevated to 5.37 and negative D-dimers. Natremia, magnesemia, corrected serum calcium, phosphoremia and thyroid assessment was normal. SARS-CoV-2 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) by nasopharyngeal swab was negative, COVID-19 serology (IgM and IgG) was also negative. Faced with concept of ischemic lesions on a brain scan, anticoagulation at a prophylactic dose, antiplatelet aggregation with aspirin and statins were initiated as well as an antibiotic therapy at a meningeal dose with ceftriaxone pending results of the lumbar puncture which subsequently showed a clear liquid with a high proteinorachia at 0.58g/l (normal between 0.15 and 0.45), a normal glycorachia/blood sugar ratio at 0.58 (normal at 0.5); with a culture showing less than 3 elements, sterile after 24 hours. Cerebral Magnetic resonance angiography performed on day 2 of admission showed signs in favor of vascular leukopathy, with some calcifications in basal ganglia and cortical atrophy. Electroencephalogram showed signs of epilepsy, which prompted us to retain the diagnosis of nonketotic hyperglycemia-related epileptic seizures. Anticonvulsant treatment was started with sodium valproate. The Patient worsened neurologically despite correction of his metabolic acidosis, he was intubated on day 3 of his admission (day 5 of symptoms onset). A cerebral computerized tomography (CT) scan was performed without showing any progressive lesions. Faced with installation of lymphopenia (HIV serologies 1 and 2 negative) with increased CRP, a multiplex RT-PCR in protected distal bronchial sample as well as in Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were performed, the first was positive to SARS-CoV-2. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction of SARS-CoV-2 in CSF was positive but with a cycle threshold (CT) of 38.6. The diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 encephalopathy was retained. The patient is still in intensive care. 
On the day of her admission, the patient was in general condition scored WHO 2, the blood pressure was 132/80 mm Hg with a heartbeat rate of 105 beats/min, and her temperature was 38.9°C. On physical examination, palpation of the right hypochondrium was very painful, the remainder of the physical examination was normal. Blood laboratory tests found: Blood hemoglobin at 10.1 g/dl, hyper leukocytosis at 13,370 elm/ml with a predominance of polynuclear cells (8300 elm/ml), without lymphopenia (3400 elm/ml), a platelet count at 276,000 elm/ml, hepatic transaminases were slightly elevated with aspartate aminotransferase (AST) at 76 IU/ml and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) at 72 IU/ml, normal hemostasis with a prothrombin ratio of 87%, KCT = 32.1 '' (t = 30 '') and an International Normalized Ratio of 1.10. An abdominal computerized tomography (CT-scan) performed before admission (9 days before) confirmed the presence of a giant sub-capsular hepatic hematoma, developed at the expense of segments VI, VII, and VIII of 136 x 80 mm in diameter. An abdominal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was done urgently on the day of admission to our department and confirmed that it was a giant sub-capsular hematoma of the liver at a phase of resorption without any traumatic or hepatic tumour pathology that could explain this spontaneous bleeding. We performed ultrasound-guided drainage (G10 diameter nephrostomy drain) of the hematoma under local anaesthesia; the drain returned 800 ml of sequestered blood upon placement, and the bacteriological study of the collected fluid showed no bacterial contamination. On the first day after drainage, an abdominal CT-scan was performed to check the position of the drain and consider its mobilization; this time radiological signs in lung cuts were compatible with a SARS-CoV-2 infection. The thoracic CT-scan showed lesions compatible with a SARS-CoV-2 infection (ground glass opacities with moderate pulmonary involvement estimated between 15 and 20% as shown in. After review of the old radiological examinations of the abdomen, the same images were found in the pulmonary bases but not reported. A nasopharyngeal sample was sent for reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), the result was positive for Gene N and Gene E and confirmed the presence of a SARS-CoV-2 infection. Following the Algerian national protocol, we prescribed Azithromycin 500mg on the first day then 250 mg for the next 4 days and Hydroxychloroquine 200 mg 3/day for 10 days. The outcomes were simple with drying up on day 02; the patient became afebrile on day 03 with an improvement of its general condition after removal of the drain. She was discharged on day 07 with prescription of home confinement for 14 days. 
On the arrival, the oxygen saturation was 99%, the heart rate was 164 beats per minute and the temperature was 36 degrees of Celsius. The child was first examined by a paediatrician who asked a paediatric surgery consultation due to the referred head injury. From the paediatric surgery clinical examination and estimation, the Glasgow Coma Scale was 14, there were no palpable or visible lesions on the head and the eye's pupils reacted to the light symmetrically. The abdominal auscultation revealed absence of bowel sounds, but no visible flatulence was present. From the abdominal palpation which was easily conducted, the abdomen was soft and there were not clinical signs of peritoneal irritation. The rectal digital examination had as a result an explosive evacuation of the bowel with diarrhea and was negative for blood. During the examination the child presented intermittent peripheral acrocyanosis and because of the quick deterioration of the clinical condition, we immediately catheterized a peripheral vein, took blood samples and tried to make a chest and abdominal x-ray. The mother accidentally breastfed the child while waiting for the x-ray to be done and spontaneously the child vomited and lost consciousness. The patient was transferred to the shock room without a diagnosis establishment because the plain x-ray was not performed. An anesthesiologist was called, the child was intubated and after the vital signs stabilization and a nasogastric tube insertion, because of the very disorienting medical history and the wide spectrum of the differential diagnosis which included both brain injury, undiagnosed heart disease and gut volvulus, which means that we could not focus our diagnosis on which pathology gave those signs and symptoms, the baby underwent an immediate full body computed tomography scan (CT scan). From the first axial images the diagnosis was established. The right chest cavity was almost completely occupied by loops of the gastrointestinal tract, which presented local thickening of their wall and fluid elements that misaligned the right lung resulting in passive atelectasis of the biggest part of the right lower lobe. Simultaneously, the CT scan revealed intrathoracic projection of the mesenteric vessels and a large displacement of the vascular structures of the mediastinum. The liver was intact, there were not any other lesions of the abdominal viscera and the brain CT scan was normal. The diaphragmatic hernia diagnosis was established and the patient was immediately transferred to the operation theater and underwent an exploratory laparotomy after obtaining the parent's informed consent. With a transverse incision in the right upper quadrant, we accessed the abdominal cavity and found a defect in the right diaphragm. The loops of the whole small bowel and the loops of the colon till the median of the transverse colon were gently retracted from the right hemithorax back to the abdominal cavity through the diaphragmatic defect. The bowel did not present signs of strangulation, the liver dome was misaligned to the medium line and the right coronary ligament of the liver was found hypoplastic. After the retraction of the abdominal viscera in their normal cavity, we aspirated approximately 150ml of serous pleural fluid from the right thoracic cavity and then inserted a chest tube through the sixth intercostal space. We then closed the defect of the diaphragm according to the Mayo technique and reassessed the retracted bowel which seemed to be normal. It must be underlined that a hernia sac was not found during the operation. We finally closed the abdominal trauma in layers and the child was transferred intubated in the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) in a stable clinical condition. The infant remained at the PICU for five days. The bowel sounds were present 2 days postoperatively and she had a bowel evacuation at the third postoperative day. The patient was extubated at the same day and returned to our Paediatric Surgery Clinic in good condition at the fifth postoperative day. During the hospitalization in our department the infant remained in good condition. The nasogastric tube was removed the day that she returned from the PICU, the breastfeeding started and was well tolerated apart from two episodes of vomiting the next two days. The chest tube was removed at the sixth day postoperatively and the intravenous antibiotic administration with a second generation cephalosporin was stopped. The next day and because of the association of diaphragmatic hernias with other congenital anomalies, a consultation from a paediatric cardiologist was asked because the other systems were checked through the preoperative CT scan. The heart ultrasound revealed that the anterior descending and the circumflex branch of the left coronary artery appear to protrude from separate orifices in the left atrium of the Valsalva, which is a finding of no particular clinical significance. The child was discharged at the seventh postoperative day in an excellent general condition and was then followed up at outpatient clinic 15 days, 1, 6, 12 and 24 months postoperatively. She had a full recovery from the operation, with no wound infections and without difficulty to thrive. At the time that this case is reported, the child is healthy and has not presented any medical problem associated with her past surgical history. 
