Being fluent in more than one foreign language has become a major educational goal in Europe [REF]. However, teaching foreign languages in conjunction with English as a global foreign language seems to pose a challenge, since the simultaneous learning of English is believed to lead to negative interferences with students’ motivation to learn other languages [REF]. This appears to be a general European phenomenon [REF], as cross-sectional research from several countries has repeatedly shown that students usually report lower value beliefs and motivation to learn languages other than English [REF]. Still less is known about longitudinal relations between students’ motivation for several languages. Moreover, the motivational development might not be the same for all students. Previous studies indicate systematic individual differences in students’ motivational beliefs depending, for instance, on their gender, language background [REF], or experience with learning several languages at home [REF]. In order to expand previous research on language motivation, the present study focuses on upper secondary students’ academic language learning in Switzerland, a historically multilingual country. This context provides a unique opportunity to understand how students’ prior linguistic knowledge (e.g., growing up with more than one home language) may be related to their motivation to learn several languages. To explore the longitudinal relationship between students’ motivation for several languages in more depth, this study draws on the concept of value beliefs, which refer to the value students attribute to doing a certain task or activity [REF] and are particularly important for predicting students’ language learning motivation [REF]. First, we investigate the longitudinal relations between Swiss German students’ value beliefs in English (a foreign language), French (a foreign but national language), and German (the native language, as data were obtained in German-speaking Switzerland) from Grades 9 to 11. Second, we explore potential relations between students’ development of value beliefs in the three language subjects and their linguistic background (monolingual vs. multilingual).
Understanding students’ motivation for learning new languages has been a concern of teachers and researchers in psychology and applied linguistics for more than five decades [REF]. The most common motivation models used are the socioeducational model [REF], self-determination theory [REF], the second language (L2) motivational self-system [REF], and expectancy-value theory [REF]. These models have distinct characteristics in describing language motivation but they all share some commonalities, in that they usually differentiate between motivational beliefs arising from within individuals or being influenced from outside (e.g., by parents). For instance, EVT posits that students’ value beliefs (beliefs about the value of engaging in a task) can predict how they will learn [REF]. Some of these value beliefs, such as the intrinsic value (pertaining to personal interest or enjoyment) or the attainment value (pertaining to the personal importance of doing well), share some intrinsic aspects, which are generally argued to be particularly important in language learning [REF]. If students see the value in an activity, they are more likely to engage in learning and to use effective learning strategies [REF]. L2 studies that have included EVT-type constructs indicate that students’ value beliefs play a positive role for their persistence and intention to continue learning a new language [REF] as well as for their achievement [REF]. Regarding the development of value beliefs over time, a large body of EVT-based work has documented an average decline in students’ value beliefs across academic domains, especially throughout late childhood and adolescence [REF]. Moreover, some studies were able to show that longitudinal relations between value facets (e.g., intrinsic and attainment value) differ between academic subjects [REF]. Nonetheless, it is still an understudied issue in educational research whether and how certain value beliefs may also interact with each other over time and across several language subjects. 
German-speaking Switzerland’s linguistic situation has been used as a textbook case for outlining ‘diglossia’ [REF]. Specifically, two context-dependent varieties are used; Alemannic (ALM) dialects, commonly referred to as Swiss German1 or Mundart (verbatim ‘mouth kind’), for oral communication, and Swiss Standard German (SSG), also called Schriftdeutsch (verbatim ‘script German’), for written communication. In other words, in German-speaking Switzerland, everyone is a native speaker of a local dialect while SSG is learned at school. To a certain extent, both ALM and SSG can also be used in the other variety’s domain, and Swiss people generally code-switch quite quickly, indicating that we are not dealing with a standard-dialect continuum [REF]. Given this state of affairs, contact between the two varieties is inevitable, so it is not surprising that research has reported interferences on the phonetic, morphological, syntactic, and lexical level for a long time [REF]. Regarding the specific topic of this study, i.e. vowels, there are only four acoustic studies on ALM dialects [REF]. Regarding SSG, vowels have been described in [REF]]; [REF] provided formant charts based on acoustic measurements. Only one study has compared ALM and SSG in Bern, St Gallen, and Zurich [REF]; however, only the SSG vowels were transcribed auditorily. The current study will thus, for the first time, systematically investigate the vowel qualities of four ALM dialects and their respective SSG varieties with an instrumental phonetic approach, providing a comparative acoustic analysis of the long vowels produced by the same speakers from Bern (BE), Chur (GR), Brig (VS) and Zurich (ZH).2 In particular, it will analyse to which extent SSG vowel qualities are determined by the speakers’ dialect. After a short description of ALM dialects and the SSG varieties spoken in Germanspeaking Switzerland, each variety’s long vowels will be illustrated, followed by a presentation of the research questions and hypotheses that have guided the current study.
Swiss ALM dialects can be put into three subgroups: Low ALM, which can only be found in the city of Basel, High ALM, comprising the dialects of the northern half, and Highest ALM, spoken in the alpine southern half of German-speaking Switzerland [REF]. As High and Highest ALM make up most of the dialects in Germanspeaking Switzerland, this study will focus on these two. High and Highest ALM are defined by an average of multiple isoglosses that tend to divide German-speaking Switzerland into a northern and southern half. The most famous isogloss is hiatus diphthongisation. The northern half, i.e. High ALM, has developed a diphthong in Old High German (OHG) hiatus positions whereas the southern half, i.e. Highest ALM, maintained a monophthong [REF]. For instance, the ALM equivalents of the standard German verb bauen ‘to build’ are traditionally pronounced with a diphthong as e.g. [»b8ou9.´] in the northern half, and with a monophthong as e.g. [»b8u˘.´] in the southern half. However, either dialect group is not as homogeneous as their names might suggest. Rather, along with the north–south divide, which itself is not a clear divide but a transition zone, there exists also an east–west divide that is based on multiple averaged phonetic, lexical, and morphosyntactic isoglosses. For instance, /l/-vocalisation is a phonetic phenomenon that separates the western parts from the eastern parts [REF]. In most of the western parts, /l/ is vocalised to different variants of [u], whereas the east does not have a vocalised realisation of the phoneme /l/.3 Nevertheless, there are many instances where the north–south and east–west divides are not as straightforward. Often, multiple variants exist for a word or a sound. However, those that do show a less complex scattering tend to group in accordance with these two axes. In conclusion, when we overlap these two averaged isogloss divisions, we see that German-speaking Switzerland consists of four broad dialect regions as depicted in Figure 1, not considering Basel (where a Low ALM dialect is spoken) and Samnaun (where a Bavarian dialect is spoken). 
Reference is ubiquitous in conversation: as speakers interact, they refer to entities relevant to their interaction. A commonly used form of reference is a referring expression with a noun phrase – in its wide variety of forms ranging from pronouns, definite and indefinite descriptions, to proper nouns [REF] – at its centre, here referred to as NP REs. As interlocutors are engaged in interactive communication, some changes can typically be observed in the NP REs they produce over the course of their interaction – what I will call changes-in-interaction.1 Firstly, their contributions generally tend to become more similar, both lexically and in terms of the grammatical constructions employed. This convergence on forms of expression has been argued to be linked with the cognitive process of speakers aligning on their linguistic representations, as outlined by the Interactive Alignment Model [REF], and is well-documented in psycholinguistic research, especially for lexical convergence. It has been proposed that speakers form conceptual pacts in interaction on which they lexically entrain, and that they establish referential precedents [REF]. The second change-in-interaction that has been widely observed in the use of NP REs is that interlocutors tend to shorten their contributions [REF], a phenomenon with has been referred to as “referential contraction” [REF]. The present chapter will predominantly be concerned with this latter process of change-in-interaction – though the two processes generally occur in parallel. In observing the shortening process, this chapter especially aims to describe central trends of structural change-in-interaction in the NP REs produced over multiple rounds of interactive dialogue. Specifically, the following research questions are addressed: 1. What is the degree to which speakers’ NP REs (produced in a repeated referential communication task) are shortened over the course of a dialogic interaction? Which elements of the NP REs are subject to shortening? 2. What structural changes can be observed in the production of NP REs across four rounds of an interactive referential communication task? To investigate change-in-interaction in the use of NP REs, a referential communication task was devised that elicited spoken dialogic conversation over four rounds of interaction, during which interlocutors repeatedly referred to the same sets of visual stimuli. A typical shortening process is illustrated in Example (1), taken from the resulting corpus of spoken interactive dialogue, with the initial first-round NP RE produced for a visual stimulus in (1a) and a selection of subsequent references to that same stimulus in (1b–d). In line with previous research, the initial NP RE in (1a) is longer and gets shortened over the course of the interaction, with interlocutors also converging on a particular NP RE, namely the green dress shirt. The focus of this study is on how speakers, as they converge on forms of expression and shorten their NP REs, change in terms of their preferred grammatical structure for the NP REs they produce. Particularly, the aim is to describe general tendencies regarding the types and forms of modifying and descriptive elements in the NP RE construction preferred throughout the interaction. Example (1) illustrates a typical trajectory of change observed in the present study: the structure of the NP RE changes from the initial presence of post-head clausal elements (e.g. it’s green) in rounds 1 and 2, to a relatively greater frequency of phrasal (pre-)modification (e.g. green) in rounds 3 and 4. These changes are indicative of what Biber and Clark (2002) have termed “compression”; this term is used to cover both the shortening process as well as the changes in structural preferences described above along the trajectory from clausal to phrasal elements. In Section 2, previous research on change-in-interaction – especially on changes relating to compression in NP REs – is discussed. The findings from experimental referential communication task studies are contextualised in theoretical approaches relating to the production of NP REs, namely the IAM [REF] and discussions of familiarity and accessibility [REF]. Section 3 introduces the experimental set-up employed to elicit a corpus of spoken English dialogues. Based on this corpus, an analysis of the structural changes in NP REs over the course of the dialogical interactions is presented in Section 4. The analysis shows that as NP REs get shortened – particularly in terms of the length of post-head elements – their structure changes from initially more elaborated, clausal forms, to more compressed, phrasal forms in later rounds of interaction. In Section 5, these findings are discussed with regard to Biber and Clark’s (2002) notion of compression as a change that occurs in reaction to a demand for a large amount of information to be conveyed to an expert audience, allowing language users to be more efficient. 
The diversity of worldviews and knowledge systems held about nature by distinct communities was highlighted by a recent report on values assessment for policymakers, the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services report [REF]. One approach for exploring variation in knowledge systems is through the lens of language—and in particular by exploring similarities and differences in the ways in which landscapes and their elements are conceptualized through language. Studies of indigenous languages have found differences in conceptualization which can have profound consequences for human–environment relations. These differences often have implications for land cover and land use classes [REF] and their definitions in management. For example, experts erroneously relabeled secondary rainforest as primary assuming rainforest had not previously been cultivated [REF], and classified areas used for grazing as unproductive which led to the planting of forest on what was, in fact, grazing land [REF]. In both cases, differences in terminology relating to landscape—that did not take into consideration indigenous classifications—affected management decisions, with implications for traditional land use. The resulting importance of capturing multiple conceptualizations of our relationship with landscapes for environmental governance has recently gained traction in policy [REF]. Despite this, policy and management approaches often appear to take conceptual equivalence for granted. For example, the European Landscape Convention (Council of Europe, 2000)—which commits signatories to protecting, monitoring, and managing landscapes of all types—has two official languages, English and French, and is then translated into 41 additional languages. It ostensibly assumes straightforward equivalence between languages. However, a closer examination of the term “landscape” and presumed translation equivalents in seven European languages found the superordinate concept landscape may not be so similar across languages after all [REF]. Similarly, other international policy initiatives, such as the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals [REF], are based around targets and indicators. For example, indicator 15.1.1 aims to measure “Forest area as a proportion of total land area” although in a diverse sample of languages, linguistic terms related to “forest” vary considerably, suggesting that there is no unitary underlying concept (Burenhult et al., 2017; Burenhult, this issue). These differences may be one reason why more formal definitions of “forest”—for instance, based on tree cover and tree height—vary with profound consequences for measurements at global scales [REF]. Related to these issues is a privileging of the English language, and the concepts captured therein, as a dominant language in both science and policy across many countries [REF], especially as the importance of global initiatives increases. This raises a series of important challenges for future work in this area. While previous research has highlighted cross-linguistic differences in isolated concepts, such as “landscape” or “forest,” it remains unclear whether a more systematic exploration of an entire semantic field would also yield such mismatches across languages. It could be the case that researchers have focused specifically on terms which are vague or ill-defined but these are, in fact, the minority when considering the larger vocabulary in this domain. For example, superordinate concepts, such as landscape, are in any case more abstract, and, therefore, potentially less likely to be comparable across languages [REF]. Moreover, studies reporting substantive differences across languages have often focused on case studies based around introspection and dictionary definitions [REF], whereas quantitative corpus-based studies are divided over whether semantic domains related to the physical world (such as landscape) show substantive similarities across languages [REF]. This highlights the need for further empirical study using speaker judgments to clarify the matter. In this paper, we, therefore, examine multiple terms within a single semantic field related to “waterbodies” in two related languages, English and German, with both lay people and experts. Specifically, we explore how speakers mentally represent the domain of “waterbody” terms through sensory, motor, and emotion associations. In doing so, we assume this provides insight into the meaning of these terms, although we remain agnostic for present purposes as to whether the concepts themselves are stored in neural systems for perception and action [REF] or amodal brain regions [REF]. To illustrate, a concept like rainbow is strongly related to visual but not olfactory information; whereas stairs conjure motor movements of the legs, but not mouth. Sensory, motor, and emotion ratings explain language use [REF], and can predict behavioral responses to words [REF]. In the current study, we ask whether terms referring to waterbodies have different sensory, motor, and emotional associations in English and German individually and as a domain. We focus specifically on waterbodies because water is not only essential to life—and thus the subject of a specific Sustainable Development Goal—it is also an important element in many explanations of landscape preference [REF]. For example, Sustainable Development Goal Indicator 6.3.2 aims to improve water quality by monitoring and increasing the “proportion of bodies of water with good ambient water quality” [REF]. Waterbodies are defined as rivers, lakes, and groundwater, and their technical delineation is described in detail by the United Nations Environment Programme [REF]. Communicating this indicator assumes the public shares a conceptualization of waterbodies, as defined by experts, and this shared conceptualization extends across languages. However, there are reasons to question this. For instance, English lake typically refers to enclosed fresh waterbodies, but the generally accepted equivalent Gaelic word loch encompasses both enclosed waterbodies containing fresh water and those open to the sea. Such differences in meaning have clear implications for the ways in which indicators are understood by local populations, and potentially implemented at national levels. Our investigation targeted English given the central role of English in previous scientific work and policy documents. As a focus of cross-linguistic comparison, we chose German— which although closely related to English (both being Germanic languages of the IndoEuropean family)—has been shown to differ from English with respect to word meanings in a number of other domains [REF]. A further advantage of German is that it is a well-documented language with large corpora available, and it is possible to sample demographically comparable participants to our English sample from the UK. Our German-speaking participants were from Germany and Switzerland and have similar educational and cultural backgrounds to the sample from the UK. Critically, the environmental characteristics of the two regions (UK vs. Germany and Switzerland) differ. The UK is an island surrounded by sea, while most of Germany and Switzerland are landlocked, with rivers playing a more important role for transport. These differences could have implications for conceptual representations. In this study, we also consider the role of expertise and how it may intersect with crosslinguistic differences. Strategic policies around landscape involve experts communicating their knowledge to people with different backgrounds, but expert conceptual representations may differ from lay people in important ways. Previous studies in other domains, such as folk biology, have shown that experts have more alternative knowledge structures to draw upon when making judgments about the structure of a domain [REF]. For example, rather than relying primarily on surface-level perceptual features, experts also use functional information to make judgments. Similarly, studies of wine experts have shown their language use [REF], memory [REF], and imagery [REF] for wines differ from lay people. Together, these studies suggest that experts can have substantively different mental representations than lay people. So, domain-specific knowledge about waterbodies (as exemplified by those knowledgeable in Geography, Geology, or Environmental Science, for example) may differ from lay people. Therefore, we conducted a comparison of expert and lay people’s concepts of waterbodies in order to establish the magnitude of variation across groups. The number of terms which could fall under the rubric “waterbody” is potentially large and may differ in salience between English and German. We, therefore, began with a corpus study (Section 2) in order to identify relevant terms using newspaper corpora in each language and searched for waterbody terms in conjunction with sustainability discourses. Next, the identified terms were submitted to a rating study (Section 3) with naïve and expert participants in English and German in order to test whether the different groups conceptualized waterbodies in distinct manners across sensory, motor, and emotional dimensions. Since we aim to go beyond the potential (non-)equivalence of individual terms, but explore ways in which waterbodies are conceptualized across these dimensions, we used principal component nalysis (PCA) to understand how the waterbody domain is structured within and across languages. From a policy perspective, differences in ways in which the domain as a whole is conceptualized could have implications for the ways in which policy is communicated and implemented. 
Framing is one of the most popular contemporary theoretical approaches in communication research [REF]. Many studies refer to the concept but sometimes fail to provide definitions, resulting in a diversity of phenomena subsumed under this conceptual umbrella [REF]. This complicates attempts to synthesize theoretical and empirical insights—which has often been described as a problem for communication research [REF]. Systematic reviews aim to help overcome such problems by identifying common trends, locating research gaps, and guiding future research (e.g., for framing: Borah, 2011; Matthes, 2009). However, the reviews available have not made much use of one of the unique characteristics of the framing approach: its bridging potential [REF]. This relates to the fact that framing is able to consider the entire communication process, with all its aspects, and thus bridges different (interdisciplinary) perspectives: strategic communication by a variety of actors (including their cognitions); journalistic cognitions, processing of information, and subsequent reporting; frames of audiences; framing effects; as well as the broader cultural contexts in which frames emerge and compete for attention [REF]. Entman (1993) refers to frame locations in the communication process: the communicator, the text/message, the receiver, and the culture. Here we argue that by systematically reviewing how framing has been applied across frame locations and by elucidating the most salient frames at each location, we gain indications about the cultural framing repository—that is, the (competitive) environment of salient and culturally/cognitively available frames [REF]. Reviewing the literature and assessing a cultural framing repository is best performed when selecting one specific topic for which many studies are available. Here we focus on the framing of climate change [REF] for a number of reasons. (1) Since climate change is one of the most important contemporary global problems [REF], exploring its communication is highly relevant. Audiences continue to rely on a set of different sources to obtain information about the issue but nevertheless find the topic difficult to engage with and understand; in this context, frames also affect (the support for) actions audiences are willing to undertake [REF]. Furthermore, climate change is a special topic due to its unobtrusiveness, complexity, and scientific (un)certainty [REF], as well as the required connections between experts, policy, sources of information, and audiences for combating it: framing is able to “break through the communication barriers” (e.g., Nisbet, 2009, p. 15). Certainly, many scholars also share the normative expectation that studying framing helps develop communication strategies (for target audiences), build consensus, and support actions to fight climate change [REF]. To do this effectively, framing needs to be explored across frame locations. (2) Since research on framing in climate change communication is growing steadily [REF], future research will benefit from a systematic review. Systematic reviews can take stock and guide future research more thoroughly when many studies are published in a specific field. In climate change communication, research has been conducted on communicator’s frames [REF], journalist’s frames [REF], frame content [REF], as well as audiences frames [REF], and framing effects [REF]—allowing for an assessment across frame locations. (3) There is a limited number of systematic reviews available for framing in communication research overall [REF]. Attention should be given to whether common trends observed elsewhere are also evident in framing research on climate change communication. Only then can we assess if there are field-specific applications, which potentially also have implications for studying framing in communication research overall. Indeed, researchers assume that the application of framing varies across subtopics; for instance, there are specific features of framing in health communication [REF]. Fieldspecific insights add to the limited number of studies that systematically examine published literature on framing. Hence, the present study will conduct a systematic review on the framing of climate change and compare findings to those from reviews covering framing in communication research overall [REF]. Furthermore, the present study will focus on the most salient frames across frame locations to harness framing’s potential as an integrative bridging concept. Thus, we aim to connect research on frame production (i.e., frames of communicators and journalists), frame content (i.e., the frames most salient in communication), audience frames, and framing effects— which provides indications of the cultural framing repository and allows identification of the conceptual (mis)fit across frame locations. A misfit means that subsequent studies did not identify or relate to the same frames and thus do not contribute to closing the climate change communication cycle [REF]. Combining quantitative and qualitative approaches of content analysis, this study will draw on 25 years of published literature on climate change framing 
Francoprovençal is a non-standardized and highly endangered Gallo-Romance language spoken today by about 110,000 to 160,000 speakers in France, Switzerland, and Italy [REF]. It was never the official language of an administrative entity and never saw standardization. Nowadays, all speakers of Francoprovençal are bilingual, and for Swiss varieties, most of them are older than 70 years, with the notable exception of Evolène in the canton Valais in Switzerland where the local variety of Francoprovençal is still transmitted to the next generation [REF]. In the Aosta Valley, in Italy, due to successful language policy promoting the use of Francoprovençal, we also still find competent native speakers of all ages. Not only geographically, but also typologically, Francoprovençal can be considered a ‘bridge’ between French, Occitan and Italian dialects, but it is relatively underresearched in terms of its morphological or syntactic properties (but see e.g., Diémoz 2007 for subject pronouns and subsequent publications). Since 2018, a binational project focusing on so-called ‘partitive articles’ (henceforth PA) in Francoprovençal varieties and Northern Italian Dialects (NIDs) has contributed to a better understanding of the nominal morphosyntax of Francoprovençal varieties. In an important antecedent study to this project, Kristol [REF] has already shown a subdivision of French, Swiss and Italian varieties into two types according to their determiner systems: “Francoprovençal A”, which comprises the Western varieties of the Valais (Switzerland) and the Northern varieties (in France and Switzerland), and “Francoprovençal B”, which comprises Southern Francoprovençal, that is, the Southern varieties spoken in France, the Eastern varieties in the Swiss canton of Valais and the Aosta Valley in Italy. Francoprovençal A varieties have a gender distinction on plural definite articles (masc. lu(z)—fem. le(z)), like in Ibero-Romance systems, and they possess a fully-fledged PA, like French [REF]. In contrast to French, however, PAs in Francoprovençal A are also attested after quantifiers/quantity expressions like Fr. beaucoup ‘a lot’ and under the scope of sentential negation [REF]. Francoprovençal B varieties do not show, like French and unlike Italian, any gender distinction on the plural definite article (le(z), with a sort of liaison consonant [z] realized only in front of vocalic onsets of the following word); correlated with this morphology, these varieties only have an obligatory [REF] invariable DE for indefinite mass singulars and indefinite plurals (with an optional allomorph de-[z] in the plural before vocalic onset). In addition, definite articles in some localities of the Francoprovençal B area (e.g., eastern Valais, Switzerland) exhibit the remains of an older subject vs oblique case system when they are singular, as illustrated in Table 1 [REF]. In sum, the two main types of Francoprovençal are different with respect to some main features of the nominal domain (see Table 1).
This paper focuses on the first property, illustrated in (1) and (2), where the nouns kwəˈzən ‘cousins’ and te ‘tea’ are preceded by a PA and the invariable DE, respectively: 
The Insular Celtic languages have often been described as having a ‘sentence word’ [REF], having a strong group accent which leads to individual word losing their ‘phonological autonomy’1 [REF], or even ‘weakly polysynthetic’ [REF]. All these characterisations relate to the fact that, compared with other European languages, the (early) Insular Celtic languages sport a rather large set of phonologically and morphologically bound formatives—including, among others, incorporated adjectives or adverbs [REF]—and a lot of phonological and morpho-phonological interaction between the elements of a phrase. What these broad descriptions usually lack is a set of criteria that define ‘wordhood’ or ‘phonological autonomy’, and a detailed study of the morphological and phonological boundaries, interdependencies and processes that could define a form of ‘word’ in the respective languages. In this, they concur with contemporary native grammars which do not give a definition of wordhood. Early Irish grammars had no concept corresponding to the modern ‘word’, the basic unit of description being the focal which refers to any kind of syntactic group [REF]. The Middle Welsh grammars have even less to say about words: the unit usually equated with the modern concept, a geir, ‘is made out of syllables’ and geireu ‘are the parts of a correct utterance’ [REF]. The last decades of typological research on wordhood have shown that languages may lack a unified word domain, that is a single phonological, morphological and syntactic entity that could unambiguously be called a word—having no or several conflicting domains is possible. Based on current work [REF], this study will provide a detailed investigation of the potential word-like properties of the verbal complex of Middle Welsh prose, focusing on the manuscripts of the fourteenth and early fifteenth centuries. Poetry will be used to illustrate interesting differences between the two genres or to gain additional insights that cannot be found in prose. The restriction to finite verbal structures is based on Dixon and Aikhenvald's (2002: 14) observation that wordhood patterns may vary between different parts of speech within the same language. The Middle Welsh verbal complex, defined for the purposes of this study as the finite verb and its satellites, as exemplified in (1)2 can contain a variety of more or less grammatical markers, including conjunctions, polarity markers and P- and T-markers. In his particular example, the verbal complex consists of eight markers, starting with a subordinating conjunction can-, followed by a negative marker ny-, an object marker -yand a resultative marker ry-. The lexical root wel- ‘to see’ is then followed by elements familiar from most Indo-European languages, such as a TAM marker -s- and an agreement and TAM marker -ei. The final slot is occupied by a bound pronoun -ef. All of these markers will be discussed in more detail in Section 3. The study is organised into three main parts: Section 2 explains the approach taken in this study, Section 3 discusses the morphological structuring of the verbal complex, and Section 4 discusses the phonological and prosodic processes that operate inside the verbal complex and how they map onto the morphological structure outlined in Section 3. The final Section 5, sums up and discusses the findings and discusses further possible avenues of study. 
Bosnian/Croatian/Montenegrin/Serbian (BCMS) is one of the most widespread heritage languages1 in Switzerland. At least 2.4% of the Swiss population speaks BCMS on a daily basis, which corresponds to 173,546 individuals.2 However, the BCMS spoken in Switzerland is still under-investigated, despite the increasing body of research on heritage languages [REF] and on heritage BCMS spoken in other German-speaking countries [REF]. One of the main challenges in the research on heritage varieties is the difficulty in obtaining and redistributing authentic data, which often limits the research settings to case studies based on online communication between peers [REF]. What is particularly lacking for facilitating the research on (BCMS) heritage varieties are corpora of spoken language, since heritage speakers use their heritage language predominantly in oral communication. In order to provide a resource which would enhance the study of heritage BCMS, we created a map task corpus of this variety spoken by second-generation speakers in Switzerland. The corpus consists of data that have been collected by students during the courses “Corpus linguistics” and “BCMS as heritage language in Switzerland” at the Department of Slavonic Languages and Literatures at the University of Zurich in 2019 and 2020. The aim of the exercises was to train the students to conduct an empirical study on spoken language. The task included fieldwork, transcription of speech, linguistic annotation and analysis of selected phenomena found in the collected data. At the end of the courses, we obtained 30 short transcripts and recordings of BCMS heritage speakers having parents born in former Yugoslavia. In order to present this data to a broader audience, and to present a prototype for a corpus access of this type of spoken data, we created an interactive platform on which users can preselect the transcripts according to particular metadata and frequency distribution of pre-annotated features, sort and filter corpus counts, search the annotated turn-aligned transcripts, and add and export their own custom annotations. Hence, in addition to providing a first publicly available resource for heritage BCMS in German-speaking diaspora, with this corpus, we also present an example for visualising, structuring, and accessing spoken language data. With the corpus architecture used for this prototype, we address the need of user-group specific differentiation when accessing spoken language corpora [REF]. The map task corpus of heritage BCMS is primarily tailored for linguists investigating heritage BCMS in interaction, and teachers and learners of BCMS living abroad.
The migration from the countries of former Yugoslavia to Switzerland started in the 1960s, when the name of the official language was Serbo-Croatian. However, Serbo-Croatian as standard language has never been entirely uniform: there was an Eastern and a Western variety, as well as two other (sub-) varieties: Bosnian–Herzegovinian standard-language expression and Montenegrin standard-language expression [REF]. Following the break-up of Yugoslavia, new standard languages have been codified from what was former known as Serbo-Croatian: Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian and Montenegrin. All these standard languages are almost completely mutually understandable, since they are all based on the Štokavian dialect, which is spoken in all of these countries.3 While the denomination BCMS is widespread in the linguistic community, Bosnian, Serbian, Croatian and Montenegrin are also seen as separate languages, depending on the definition and approach one adopts when dealing with them. There is an extended body of literature about the controversy of BCMS and whether and under which aspects it can be considered one language [REF]. For reasons of consistency, in this paper we use the term BCMS to denominate these language(s), although the variety from Montenegro is not included in our data. 
Imitation is ubiquitous in humans. It has been argued to be a fundamentally important capacity for human culture [REF] and a developmental basis for language and cognitive skills [REF], representing a powerful learning mechanism for human beings, whether infants or adults. The present study expands on previous research on imitative abilities and investigates the role played by different types of imitation skills (language-based multimodal imitation vs. object-based imitation) that have thus far rarely been assessed together. It also contributes to the literature on the imitation abilities of young preschoolers, an age group in whom important linguistic and social developmental advances take place and which has hitherto not been actively studied in the field of imitation abilities. To our knowledge, this is the first time that the relationship between different types of imitation is investigated in relation to linguistic and pragmatic skills in preschool children. We will start by briefly reviewing the previous literature on the relationship between imitative behaviors and language and sociopragmatic abilities, making the case that language-based imitation should be assessed from a socially relevant multimodal perspective. Imitation skills, understood as the ability to intentionally replicate others’ behaviors or actions, play a fundamental role in the development of language and how it is used in social contexts (i.e., social communication). Numerous empirical and longitudinal studies have shown that spontaneous imitative behaviors which naturally occur in language interactions during the first and second year of life (specifically between 9 and 24 months), as well as elicited imitation behaviors, are key for language production and comprehension [REF], the acquisition of vocabulary [REF], and social communication behaviors such as interactive actions like requesting or greeting [REF]. In relation to language production and comprehension skills, Bates et al. (1979) performed a correlational study with 9- to 13-month-old infants and reported a strong link between vocal imitation (i.e., imitation of sounds and words) and language production and comprehension at this stage of development. Hanika and Boyer (2019) demonstrated that motor imitation behaviors (like clapping hands or pushing a toy car across a table) in infants between 15 and 18 months have a unique relationship to language comprehension skills. In relation to the acquisition of vocabulary, in a study with children from 9 through 15 months, Carpenter et al. (1998) observed a positive relationship between the age when infants began to imitate arbitrary actions involving physical objects (e.g., hitting the side of a box or patting the top of a box with one hand) and the age when they began to use referential language (i.e., words used to refer to specific actions or objects). Masur and Eichorst (2002) showed that infants that imitated more novel words at 13 months had larger lexicons at 17 months and 21 months, demonstrating that a higher frequency in the imitation of novel words at 13 months predicted infants’ later lexical development. Snow (1989) concluded that vocal and gestural imitation abilities at 14 months were significantly correlated with language skills (i.e., the number of verbs produced or total productive vocabulary) at 20 months. As for the relationship with sociopragmatic skills, Dohmen et al. (2016) carried out a longitudinal study with 29 2-year-old Germanspeaking children identified as late talkers, who were followed up at 4 years of age. The results showed that while early language skills at 2 years were significantly associated with later language outcomes, imitative behaviors made a significant contribution to the prediction of the social communication outcome two years later. Clinically, Dohmen et al.’s study demonstrated that body movement imitation measures have the potential to improve the identification of preschoolers who are at risk of later social communication and language problems. Focusing on non-typically developing populations, the study by Wray, Saunders, McGuire, Cousins and Norbury (2017) revealed that children with language impairment (LI) showed weaknesses in gesture accuracy imitation patterns (i.e., imitation skills in a gesture elicitation task) in comparison to typically developing peers. Additionally, the ability to imitate both words and simple syntactic structures has been shown to be associated with language development in children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) [REF]. Importantly, the spontaneous or elicited imitative behaviors analyzed in the abovementioned developmental studies encompass both language-based imitation, which includes several language components (e.g., speech vocalizations, body actions, facial expressions, and vocabulary), and object-based imitation (e.g., imitative patterns involving actions on objects observed through play-based activities comprising free-play, book sharing, constructive play, or symbolic play). To our knowledge, only a handful of studies have explicitly compared the relevance of language-based and object-based imitation skills, suggesting that the former have stronger links to language abilities than objectbased imitation skills [REF]. Stone, Ousley and Littleford’s (1997) study suggested that the imitation of socially relevant body movements and the imitation of actions with objects represented independent dimensions which are not equally related to patterns of language use and language development. In their results, while the imitation of body movements was concurrently and predictively associated with expressive language skills, the imitation of actions on objects was associated with play skills. Masur and Ritz (1984) found that 10- to 16-month-old infants more accurately imitated communicative gestures such as waving or pointing than hand and arm movements with no communicative significance, such as opening and closing of the fist or raising an arm. A similar pattern was reported by Rogers et al. (2003) with regard to facial imitation (e.g., extending the tongue and wiggling it to both sides or making a noisy kiss), with more imitations of facial expressions which were strongly linked to interpersonal social engagement. These findings support the idea that the social function of gestures might be strongly modulating infants’ imitation patterns in a more significant fashion than non-social imitation behaviors. Finally, Ingersoll and Lalonde (2010) analyzed the beneficial role of gesture imitation tasks over object-based imitation tasks in language therapy settings with older children with ASD and found that gesture imitation tasks had a stronger impact. Despite the important contributions made by the abovementioned studies, it is noteworthy that none of them incorporated an integrative multimodal view of language-based imitation which includes the gestural, prosodic, and verbal/lexical components. The present study aims to fill in this gap by analyzing the relationship between multimodal language-based imitation (understood as the integration between gestural, prosodic, and verbal/lexical content dimensions) and object-based imitation in a later stage of development (namely, the early preschool years). Although imitative learning behaviors tend to dwindle spontaneously from about 2 years of age, as the child moves into the preschooler stage, imitation continues to be a key component of social communication that promotes shared experiences and social play [REF]. It is thus relevant to ask whether young preschoolers’ abilities to accurately perform the multimodal imitation of socially relevant events are positively correlated with language and sociopragmatic skills. We believe that this is an important developmental period to focus on, because it is when children are delving right into the complex areas of language. When they enter school, they are expected to have certain school readiness skills such as sociopragmatic abilities and basic narration skills, and these skills have been demonstrated to be predictive of important aspects of language and academic development [REF]. In this period, narrative and sociopragmatic skills are thus key in furthering our knowledge about the acquisition of the intersection between social cognition and language [REF]. Summarizing, as previous studies have focused on the relevance of imitation behaviors in early infancy and on children with language disorders, further research is still needed to fully understand the role of socially relevant imitation patterns at the preschool stage. The main hypothesis underlying this investigation is that language-based imitation abilities (crucially regarded as the integration of three separate and complementary dimensions) will be related to both complex language measures (i.e., narration skills) and sociopragmatic measures in preschoolers. Several arguments support our proposal that it is crucial to investigate imitation from an integrated multimodal perspective. For a long time, language has been studied primarily as a unichannel phenomenon (i.e., only taking verbal cues into account), skirting over the fact that language is used, learned, and has evolved through face-to-face interactions [REF]. However, numerous studies have provided evidence that speech and gesture are processed similarly in terms of semantic and temporal integration [REF]. Furthermore, there is evidence that prosodic information from visual and vocal channels is processed similarly by the brain [REF], and developmental research shows that prosody and gesture develop together in an intricate relationship [REF]. All in all, the parallel development of multimodal cues (prosody, gesture, and verbal content) and their fine alignment with speech demonstrate the need to assess the value of these multimodal cues together. 
Working memory (WM) is a core function of the cognitive system responsible for holding information briefly available for further processing. It has long been shown that the phonological similarity between items in a to-be-remembered list induces confusion errors (Baddeley, 1966). When participants study lists such as “rat, fat, mat” and are asked to recall them in serial order, they confuse the order of these words more often compared to lists such as “wall, dig, bend”. Semantically similar lists such as “leopard, cheetah, lion”, by contrast, do not reliably lead to such confusion errors compared to semantically dissimilar lists, such as “sky, pen, pillow” . In this work, we comprehensively tested the boundary conditions in which semantic similarity could induce confusion errors. Based on our results, we arrived at the conclusion that semantic and phonological information play different roles in the short-term maintenance of serial/positional information. This study is motivated by models postulating an item’s position in WM is maintained through item-context binding, as implemented in many computational models of serial recall . In these models, serial position is temporarily maintained by binding items – such as words – to contexts – such as a word’s serial position in a list (e.g., binding the word “wall” to “Position 1”). We illustrate this assumption in Fig. 1. Suppose the to-be-remembered sequence is “wall, dig, bend”. If asked to recall the item that was presented in the third position, one can re-activate the context of third position and use it as cue to retrieve the word “bend” that is bound to it (Fig. 1, top). Likewise, if asked to recall where “dig” was presented, one can retrieve “Position 2” (Fig. 1, bottom). The generic associative model in Fig. 1 allows this flexibility: Retrieving an item when cued with a context/position, but also retrieving a context/position when cued with an item. It is this item-context binding that we assume is responsible for maintaining the item’s serial order in a list. This assumption is supported by modelling work that has identified item-context bindings as an essential component of working memory for lists as well as for visual-spatial arrays . It has long been established that the item-context bindings are subject to confusion errors . In the serial-recall literature, these errors are typically referred to as order errors, which is a specific type of confusion error appearing in tasks where people need to recall the items in their serial position of a list. When recalling lists of words in their serial order, people often recall the correct words from the list but in wrong list positions. For instance, when trying to recall the sequence “wall, dig, bend” people sometimes retrieve “wall, bend, dig” instead. These order errors are more likely to occur between items sharing adjacent vs. distant serial positions in the list (i.e., the locality constrain, see [REF]), suggesting some degree of overlap between adjacent positional representations (i.e., the overlapping ellipses in Fig. 2). These confusion errors must be distinguished from item errors, which is the failure to recall an item at all. One might not be able to recall “bend” and either respond with another word that did not exist in the list or leave their response empty. These errors and the way to compute them are illustrated in Fig. 2. Studies have shown a dissociation between confusion and item errors. Confusion errors are more affected by dual-task interference than item errors are , and they are associated with different neural regions . Confusion errors are particularly diagnostic to understand what kind of representations is bound to context, because they reflect failures of distinctly binding each item to its context. We will therefore focus on these errors when examining the role of phonological and semantic representations for the item-context binding process. The role of item memory will be considered in the Discussion. The similarity between to-be-remembered information impacts confusion errors, with similar information being more confusable than dissimilar one. The best studied example of this phenomenon is the phonological similarity effect , in which phonologically similar list items are confused more often than phonologically dissimilar items. This similarity effect is of critical importance for our understanding of WM. It shows that the phonological representation of items is bound to positional contexts. This impact of between-item similarity has been observed across multiple domains, such as the auditory , and visual ones. Therefore, the increased confusability induced by similarity appears to reflect a general property of WM. Confusion errors in WM can be more generally attributed to a discriminability problem. Whatever representation is used during itemcontext binding, this representational format is subject to confusion errors, especially when the to-be-remembered information becomes difficult to discriminate (i.e., as similarity increases). 
