Introduction:

Sarcopenia, the age-related loss of muscle mass and function, is a significant concern in the aging population. It can greatly impact the daily lives of older adults by limiting their ability to perform simple tasks such as lifting objects or walking. Not only does sarcopenia affect community-dwelling older adults but also up to 33% of nursing home residents. Malnutrition and low protein intake are known contributors to the onset and progression of sarcopenia. Therefore, nutritional supplementation, either alone or in combination with exercise, is currently recommended as a treatment strategy for sarcopenia.

While protein intake is a widely recognized factor in muscle health, the role of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in muscle physiology and sarcopenia progression has gained attention. Fatty acids, which can act as an energy source for muscles and are incorporated into various muscle structures, play an essential role in optimizing muscle function and structure. Omega-3 PUFAs have been suggested to have beneficial effects on muscle health, while omega-6 PUFAs may have negative effects due to their pro-inflammatory properties. Therefore, a higher dietary intake ratio of omega-3 to omega-6 PUFAs is considered beneficial for musculoskeletal and cardiovascular health.

However, detailed data on the usual dietary intake of PUFAs in sarcopenic older adults are lacking. Food records are commonly used to measure dietary intake but can be subject to recall bias or socially desirable responses. Moreover, assessing intake alone may not capture the relationship between intake and nutritional status over time. Thus, it is important to evaluate both dietary intake and status markers.

In this context, the present study aimed to assess the dietary intake of PUFAs and their nutritional status in well-defined sarcopenic older adults. To achieve this, four-day food records were used to measure dietary intake, while the fatty acid composition of red blood cell membranes served as an objective biomarker for nutritional status. This longer-term marker reflects the nutritional status of PUFAs based on the intake over the past month or two.

The primary objective of this study was to explore the correlation between dietary PUFAs intake, PUFAs status, and sarcopenia outcomes in community-dwelling older adults with sarcopenia. Sarcopenia outcomes were defined by muscle strength, muscle mass, physical performance, physical activity, and quality of life measures. It was hypothesized that in this population, the intake of omega-3 PUFAs is low and is correlated with their nutritional status. Additionally, it was expected that higher intake of omega-3 PUFAs would be associated with improved muscle strength and mass, as well as higher quality of life scores and increased physical activity levels.

By investigating the relationship between dietary PUFAs intake, nutritional PUFAs status, and sarcopenia outcomes in older adults with sarcopenia, this study aims to provide valuable insights into the potential impact of PUFAs on muscle health and the prevention or management of sarcopenia.