As of June 2022, 2 years into the coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, 84.2 million people in the United States have been infected, and over 1 million have died [REF]. The impact of this calamity has been felt across our society, but the burden of hospitalizations and deaths has disproportionally affected historically marginalized populations, including minorities, immigrants, and economically disadvantaged individuals. Black, Latinx, and Indigenous populations have the infection and death rates higher than non-Latinx White groups (heretofore referred to as “White”) [REF]. As we have passed the grim 1-million death mark for the ongoing pandemic, the age-adjusted death rates from COVID-19 in younger people are approximately twice as high in Black and Latinx populations than in White groups [REF]. In the first year of the pandemic, vaccines were quickly developed and became an effective tool to reduce transmission, hospitalization, and deaths from COVID-19. Since the initial rollout, however, vaccination rates have been lower in Black and Latinx communities. As of June 2022, only 48% and 63% of eligible Black and Latinx people have received at least one vaccine dose, well below the national average of 78%.5 Among Black and Latinx populations, a long-standing mistrust in the health care system and the research enterprise, language barriers, immigration issues, and lack of health insurance in low-paying jobs magnified non-access to vaccines [REF]. Health disparities during the COVID-19 pandemic are not random but rather due to longstanding racial/ethnic and socioeconomic inequities caused by structural racism and discriminatory policies regarding access to high-quality education, employment, housing, and health care [REF]. Although access to health care improved following the passage of the Affordable Care Act, millions of people remain uninsured, which compromises the capacity of the US health care system to deliver equitable care, particularly in a health crisis. Moreover, the pandemic overwhelmed hospitals that predominantly care for Black, Latinx, and Indigenous communities, exacerbating already strained, low-resourced health systems and limiting access to advanced treatments and critical care services. This article discusses the challenges faced by marginalized and underserved populations, and the lessons learned from the COVID-19 pandemic.Structural and social determinants of health (SDOH) are “the circumstances in which people live and the systems and structures that model their experience and access to health care.”7 In prior work, we have used the World Health Organization (WHO) Conceptual framework for Action on Social Determinants of Health (WHO CSDH)8 to simultaneously examine root causes of existing disparities while also identifying opportunities for action (Fig. 1 ) [REF]. This framework proposes that structural bases (eg, social class) impact the socioeconomic and political context (eg, government, policies, and cultures), influencing structural determinants (eg, policies, socioeconomic status, and racism), which shape exposure to intermediary social determinants. The intermediary determinants include health care access, occupational and housing conditions, and psychosocial stress that, in the end, determine an individual’s unique social circumstances that shape behavior and risk for disease [REF]. This framework helps us evaluate the immediate circumstances of living while also considering the broader context that impacted COVID-19 outcomes. This article focuses on structural determinants that were essential drivers of health disparities during