Thrombectomy approach for access maintenance in the end stage renal disease population: a narrative reviewAbstract: This article reviews current practices and outcomes in endovascular thrombectomy techniques for the treatment of thrombosed arteriovenous grafts (AVGs) and fistulas (AVFs).Arteriovenous (AV) access allows patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) to receive hemodialysis. Thrombosis of AV access can lead to delay in hemodialysis or abandonment of access requiring dialysis catheter placement. Endovascular approach has become the preferred treatment option for thrombosed access over surgery. Interventions include removal of thrombus from the AV circuit and treatment of the underlying anatomical abnormality, such as an anastomotic stenosis. Thrombolysis, or the act of dissolving thrombus, is performed by using infusion catheters or pulse injector devices for the administration of fibrinolytic agents. Thrombectomy, or the mechanical removal of thrombus, is performed by using embolectomy balloon catheters, rotating baskets or wires, rheolytic and aspiration mechanisms. Adjunctive methods such as cutting balloon angioplasty, drug-coated balloon (DCB) angioplasty, and stent placement are also used to treat stenoses in the AV circuit. Complications of these procedures include vessel rupture, arterial embolism, pulmonary embolism (PE), and paradoxical embolism to the brain.This narrative review article was written based on literature search from electronic databases, including PubMed and Google Scholar.The understanding of thrombectomy techniques and their potential complications is essential in the management of patients with thrombosed AV access.  1. Introduction The prevalence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) is increasing worldwide and contributing to the global burden of disease. Hemodialysis is the most common renal replacement modality for patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Compared to central venous catheters, arteriovenous fistula (AVF) and graft (AVG) are the preferred access for chronic hemodialysis treatment due to lower hospitalization risk and mortality [REF]. Poorer outcomes in catheter-dependent patients are associated with increased risk of sepsis and bacteremia [REF]. However, long-term vascular accesses typically require frequent interventions to maintain access patency, which is not only a significant burden on health care resources, but also impacts patients’ quality of life with implications on morbidity and mortality.Thrombosis is the leading cause of access loss in AVF and AVG, accounting for 65–85% of the cases [REF]. Thrombosis rate for AVF is 0.24 events per 1,000 patient days [REF], and AVG thrombosis occurs 0.2 events per patient during 2 years follow-up [REF]. Access thrombosis is commonly caused by underlying venous or arterial anastomotic stenoses. Systemic factors that can increase the risk of access thrombosis include hypercoagulability [REF], low ejection fraction [REF], hypotension and hemoconcentration [REF]. Cannulation complications resulting in hematomas can also lead to access thrombosis [REF].Thrombosed access leads to hemodialysis treatment delays, treatment omissions, inpatient admissions and abandonment of access requiring dialysis catheter placement [REF]. Thrombus formed in arteriovenous (AV) access is comprised of two components: soft, friable clot that disintegrates easily in the venous outflow and a firm fibrin plug near the anastomosis [REF]. To date, no FDA-approved pharmacological therapies can prevent access thrombosis. The long-term effect of anti-platelet therapy and warfarin on access patency