The adenosinergic machinery in cancer: In-tandem insights from basic mechanisms to therapyAbstract: Extracellular adenosine (eADO) signaling has emerged as an increasingly important regulator of immune responses, including tumor immunity. eADO is mainly produced from extracellular ATP (eATP) hydrolysis. eATP is rapidly accumulated in the extracellular space following cell death or cellular stress triggered by hypoxia, nutrient starvation, or inflammation. eATP plays a pro-inflammatory role by binding and activating the P2 purinergic receptors (P2X and P2Y), while eADO has been reported in many studies to mediate immunosuppression by activating the P1 purinergic receptors (A1, A2A, A2B, and A3) in diverse immune cells. Consequently, the hydrolysis of eATP to eADO alters the immunosurveillance in the tumor microenvironment (TME) not only by reducing eATP levels but also by enhancing adenosine receptor signaling. The effects of both P1 and P2 purinergic receptors are not restricted to immune cells. Here we review the most up-to-date understanding of the tumor adenosinergic system in all cell types, including immune cells, tumor cells, and stromal cells in TME. The potential novel directions of future adenosinergic therapies in immuno-oncology will be discussed.  1. Introduction Adenosine (ADO) is a metabolic intermediate involved in the ATP catabolism pathway and the synthesis of some important signaling molecules, such as cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) [REF]. Extracellular nucleotides, including purines and pyrimidines, have been unequivocally reported as signaling molecules involved in several systems such as blood pressure regulation, platelet activation, cardiovascular system remodeling, neurotransmission, anti-cell death, promotion of cell growth, and immunoregulation [REF]. Under physiological conditions, both ATP and ADO are usually at low levels in the extracellular space [REF]. Several cell conditions and stresses like cell membrane damage, ischemia, inflammation, and cancer could trigger the massive release of endogenous ATP in controlled manners such as regulated vesicular exocytosis and ion channel/transporter-mediated release but also in a direct cell-lytic way through cell destruction [REF]. Thus, the accumulation of extracellular ATP (eATP) actually functions as a danger sign or nominated Danger-Associated Molecular Pattern (DAMP) to attract phagocytic cells to immigrate to the inflammatory sites and caution the whole immune system about the presence of pathogen-associated molecules and cell/tissue damage [REF]. The activation of inflammation achieved by eATP is notably mediated through P2 purinergic receptors, including ligand-gated receptors (P2X) and metabotropic nucleotide-selective receptors (P2Y) [REF]. Most family members of P2Y receptors promote oncogenic processes directly in tumor cells, while P2Y receptors in immune cells regulate these processes indirectly [REF]. Recent studies suggested that eATP activates P2X purinoceptor 7 (P2X7) expressed on macrophages, dendritic cells (DCs), granulocytes, T cells, and B cells to promote the formation of the NLRP3 inflammasome and the release of inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β and IL-18 to enhance anti-tumor immunity [REF]. However, eATP is rapidly hydrolyzed to extracellular adenosine (eADO) in the tumor microenvironment (TME) since solid tumors normally have higher levels of ectonucleotidases than non-tumor tissues [REF].eADO metabolic pathways: production, degradation, and signaling.eADO is primarily derived from the sequential hydrolysis of eATP mediated by several established