Adenosine (ADO) is a metabolic intermediate involved in the ATP catabolism pathway and the synthesis of some important signaling molecules, such as cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) [REF]. Extracellular nucleotides, including purines and pyrimidines, have been unequivocally reported as signaling molecules involved in several systems such as blood pressure regulation, platelet activation, cardiovascular system remodeling, neurotransmission, anti-cell death, promotion of cell growth, and immunoregulation [REF]. Under physiological conditions, both ATP and ADO are usually at low levels in the extracellular space [REF]. Several cell conditions and stresses like cell membrane damage, ischemia, inflammation, and cancer could trigger the massive release of endogenous ATP in controlled manners such as regulated vesicular exocytosis and ion channel/transporter-mediated release but also in a direct cell-lytic way through cell destruction [REF]. Thus, the accumulation of extracellular ATP (eATP) actually functions as a danger sign or nominated Danger-Associated Molecular Pattern (DAMP) to attract phagocytic cells to immigrate to the inflammatory sites and caution the whole immune system about the presence of pathogen-associated molecules and cell/tissue damage [REF]. The activation of inflammation achieved by eATP is notably mediated through P2 purinergic receptors, including ligand-gated receptors (P2X) and metabotropic nucleotide-selective receptors (P2Y) [REF]. Most family members of P2Y receptors promote oncogenic processes directly in tumor cells, while P2Y receptors in immune cells regulate these processes indirectly [REF]. Recent studies suggested that eATP activates P2X purinoceptor 7 (P2X7) expressed on macrophages, dendritic cells (DCs), granulocytes, T cells, and B cells to promote the formation of the NLRP3 inflammasome and the release of inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β and IL-18 to enhance anti-tumor immunity [REF]. However, eATP is rapidly hydrolyzed to extracellular adenosine (eADO) in the tumor microenvironment (TME) since solid tumors normally have higher levels of ectonucleotidases than non-tumor tissues [REF].eADO metabolic pathways: production, degradation, and signaling.eADO is primarily derived from the sequential hydrolysis of eATP mediated by several established ectonucleotidases [REF]. In a canonical route, eATP is hydrolyzed to extracellular ADP and AMP sequentially by CD39, which is known as ectonucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 1, and AMP is finally hydrolyzed to eADO by CD73, which is known as 5′-nucleotidase [REF]. However, the fate of eAMP is not limited to producing eADO; eAMP can also be phosphorylated sequentially to eATP by secreted or membrane-associated adenylate kinase (ecto-AK) and nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDPK) [REF].The non-classical eADO production pathway is mediated by CD38, which is known as NAD+ ectohydrolase, and CD203a, which is known as ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase [REF]. Extracellular nicotinamide dinucleotide (NAD) released via