Case 1: Baby NU is a male infant who was delivered at term by spontaneous vaginal delivery. At birth, it was noticed that he had absence of skin and skull bone. The pregnancy was supervised and uneventful, and the mother did not use any medications. An ultrasound scan during the second trimester did not show any abnormalities. The baby is the third child of parents in a consanguineous family, where the parents are cousins. The physical examination revealed a large defect on the vertex of the scalp, with a yellow layer of membrane covering the defect. The baby also had low set ears, irritability, a tense anterior fontanelle, and respiratory distress. A diagnosis of aplasia cutis congenita with possible meningitis was made. The baby received routine care including oxygen, intravenous fluids, antibiotics, and wound dressing. The respiratory distress improved, oral feeds were started, and the baby was eventually discharged home for follow-up at specialty clinics.

Case 2: Baby YA is a Hausa male infant who was referred at 48 hours of life due to absence of part of the skull bone noticed at birth. The delivery was not associated with head trauma. The baby was a product of term gestation, and the birth weight was unknown. The mother was 25 years old and unemployed, while the father was a hospital attendant. This was the third child of the parents in a non-consanguineous setting, and there were no known family history of congenital anomalies. The baby presented with a subcutaneous tissue defect of the scalp, leakage of cerebrospinal fluid, desquamating skin, hypoplastic finger and toe nails, dilated abdominal wall veins, and a grade 3 systolic cardiac murmur. A working diagnosis of multiple congenital anomalies including congenital cutis aplasia and ventricular septal defect with meningitis was made. Bacterial species were isolated from the blood and cerebrospinal fluid. The baby was treated with antibiotics, wound cleaning, and dressing. Complications included CSF leakage and meningitis, which resolved over time. Plans were made for surgical intervention to repair the skull defect. The baby was discharged, but unfortunately, died 7 days post discharge. Due to financial constraints, further investigations such as brain MRI, echocardiography, and chromosomal studies could not be performed.