Patient information On the 20 th August 2020, a previously healthy, 17-year-old African male was transferred from a local hospital to the medical admission ward at Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital (CHBAH), Soweto, Johannesburg. The patient presented with a one week history of fever, generalized rash over the body and eyelids, intermittent headache with associated neck pain, sore throat and a dry cough, preceded by a day history of diarrhoea. There was no history of arthralgias, oral or nasal ulcers, or urethral discharge.There was no prior medical admission, no history of surgery and no significant medication or recreational drug use. He is currently a grade ten scholar. There was no known COVID-19 case contact, however recent travel to Kwa-Zulu Natal two weeks prior was noted (Table 1). Clinical findings On clinical examination the patient was ill looking with a blood pressure of 103/44 mmHg, heart rate of 123 beats per minute and a temperature of 39.5°C. He was restless with no evidence of cognitive dysfunction. A generalized maculopapular rash was observed over the torso, upper back, limbs and palmar surface of the hands. The rash was non-tender, with erythematous desquamating lesions over the eyelids and bilateral conjunctivitis. The abdominal and respiratory examinations were normal with no jaundice, or lymphadenopathy. His cardiovascular examination revealed normal heart sounds with no added sounds, a sinus tachycardia, a normal volume pulse and warm, well perfused peripheries. He had no meningism and there was no arthritis. Diagnostic assessment Diagnostic methods Prior to arrival to CHBAH the patient had received three days of ceftriaxone and intravenous (IV) paracetamol with no clinical improvement. Blood investigations showed a rising C-reactive protein (CRP), procalcitonin (PCT), white cell count (WCC), ferritin, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and D-dimers (Table 2). Blood and urine cultures remained negative. The lumbar puncture was normal (including viral panel) with a normal chest radiograph and abdominal sonar. The first echocardiogram (ECHO) performed revealed a structurally normal heart with normal systolic function. Three nasopharyngeal swabs sent for SARS-CoV-2 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were negative. Diagnosis and differentials An initial wide differential diagnosis of infections was considered: viral infections such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) seroconversion, acute infection with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), herpes simplex virus (HSV) or cytomegalovirus (CMV); and bacterial infections caused by Group A streptococci, Neisseria meningitidis, other gram negative bacteria, rickettsia, leptospirosis or malaria. Non-infectious differential diagnoses were also considered: Kawasaki like disease (KD) as well as adult onset Still's disease (AOSD) were considered in view of the rash, sore throat, elevated ferritin, CRP and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) in association with neutrophilia. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) was considered on account of fever, rash and low complement (C3, C4) levels. An elevated temperature,