Case 1: baby NU, a male infant from Gbayi tribe delivered at term in a hospital by spontaneous vaginal delivery to a 30-year-old para 2 mother. Baby cried well at birth and weighed 3kg. He was referred at age of 4 hours on account of absence of skin and skull bone noticed at birth. Pregnancy was supervised and uneventful and mother denied use of any medications orthodox or herbal except for antenatal drugs. Ultrasound scan in second trimester was reported as normal. He was the third child of parents in a monogamous consanguineous family setting parents being cousins.Though there was a history of a fresh still birth during the mother's first confinement, no congenital malformations were seen in that baby and there was no history of congenital anomalies in the extended family. Mother is a 30-year-old teacher and father a 35-year-old police officer and both had a secondary level of education. Physical examination revealed an irregularly shaped well-demarcated large defect on the vertex of the scalp over the parietal bone bilaterally extending to the occipital region measuring 10 x 8 cm in the midline and 6 x 6 cm in the occipital region. A yellow layer of membrane covered the defect. The patient had low set ears, he was irritable, with a tense anterior fontanelle and in respiratory distress. Other system examination were unremarkable. A diagnosis of aplasia cutis congenita with possible meningitis was made. Baby had routine care as per protocol including: oxygen, intravenous fluids, antibiotics at meningitis doses, dressing with sofra-tulle and normal saline soaked gauze. The respiratory distress subsided; oral feeds were eventually commenced and well tolerated. Multidisciplinary team management was done along with neurosurgeons and plastic surgeons. A babygram and an abdominopelvic scan done were normal. The brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed absence of parietal bone towards the vertex bilaterally extending from 2 cm behind the anterior fontanelle down to the posterior fontanelle giving an area of defect measuring 8.3 cm x 5.3 cm (AP X TR). The subcutaneous scalp tissues were not visualized. However, the brain in this region was overlaid by the dural meninges. The occipital, frontal and temporal bones of the cranial vault and their overlying scalp tissues were spared. The cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum and the brain stem structures were normal in morphology and signal intensity. No intra-axial or extra-axial mass or collection seen. No area of abnormal enhancement seen. The cortical sulci, sylvian fissures, basal cisterns and ventricles are normal in calibre, outline and intensity. The orbits and retro-orbital structures are within normal limit. Conclusion: features in keeping with aplasia cutis congenita. Burns and plastic unit and neurosurgeons made plans for future intervention in form of raising a