The warning said an "ongoing risk of kidnapping" exists, and the U.S. government is worried about possible terrorist attacks on Americans and Western facilities.   However, there are no plans for a U.S. government-sponsored evacuation of American citizens at this time, the State Department said.   "U.S. government-facilitated evacuations occur only when no safe commercial alternatives exist," it said.   The message from the British Foreign Office was similar. The security situation continues to deteriorate, it said, and "we now judge that our Embassy staff and premises are at increased risk. "  It too asked British nationals to leave immediately.   The French Foreign Ministry issued a statement to its citizens in Yemen.   "Given the recent political developments, and for security reasons, the Embassy invites you to temporarily leave Yemen, as soon as possible, via commercial flights at your convenience," the statement said.  "The Embassy will temporarily be closed as of Friday, February 13, 2015, until further notice. "  It wasn't immediately clear how the embassy closures will affect the work of United States and its allies work in combating Isliamist groups in the country, but the Pentagon says the U.S. military remains active in Yemen.   "They are still capable of conducting counterterrorism operations in Yeman and frankly ... there's some counterterrorism training that's still ongoing ... with Yemeni security forces," said Pentagon spokesman Rear  Adm. John Kirby.   "I'd be less than honest if I said that there hadn't been some adjustments already made because of the political uncertainty," he said. "We're just going to have to watch this closely going forward. "  Yemen's government has been a key ally in the fight against al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the Yemen-based group linked to attacks such as the recent slaughter at French magazine Charlie Hebdo.   "They are a very dangerous group," said Kirby. "They do want to threaten Western interests, including U.S. interests and we do consider them a threat to the United States of America.  We're watching them very closely."  Late last month, Meda Al Rowas, a senior analyst at IHS Country Risk, told CNN that unless Hadi is reinstated, the chances of the country avoiding armed conflict are slim.   "Our forecast is really civil war in Yemen because we have a lot of nonstate armed groups who are likely to compete over territory and have a lot of competing agendas," she said.   The Houthis -- Shiite Muslims who have long felt marginalized in the majority Sunni country -- have taken control of Sanaa and the northern provinces of Amran and Sadaa.   But there has already been resistance to their attempted takeover of national government institutions from different groups in Yemen, particularly in the south, where there's a long-running secessionist movement, and in the oil-rich province of Marib to the east of Sanaa.   There are currently no talks with the Houthis, but there are discussions about whether to talk to them, U.S. officials said last month.
In remarks to business leaders on Wednesday, Obama said Boehner and Republicans have to take the first step.   "I think there is recognition that maybe they can accept some rate increases as long as it is combined with serious entitlement reform and additional spending cuts," the president said. "And if we can get the leadership on the Republican side to take that framework, to acknowledge that reality, then the numbers actually aren't that far apart. "  He added that "we can probably solve this in about a week -- it's not that tough. "  The statements reflected how negotiations on the automatic spending cuts and tax hikes set to occur on January 1 -- the fiscal cliff -- have evolved since Obama's re-election, and Democratic gains in both houses of Congress, last month.   Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner told CNBC Wednesday the Obama administration is "absolutely" prepared to go off the fiscal cliff "if there's no prospect to an agreement that doesn't involve those rates on the top 2%."   Republicans opposed to any new revenue in their quest to shrink government now realize Obama's victory and public support for the president's campaign theme of higher taxes on the wealthy leave them with little negotiating leverage.   Read more: The road to fiscal cliff paved with good intentions  Less than four weeks from the fiscal cliff, GOP leaders face a choice: Agreeing to Obama's demand to hold down tax rates on most Americans while allowing higher rates on top earners, or being blamed for everyone's taxes going up in 2013.   Polls show that more Americans will blame Republicans, instead of Obama and Democrats, if there is no deal and the nation goes over the fiscal cliff. A Washington Post/Pew Research Center survey released Tuesday put the margin at 53%-27% in citing Republicans or Obama. A CNN/ORC International poll released last week showed 45% would blame congressional Republicans compared to 34% who would hold Obama responsible.   Economists warn that the fiscal cliff's automatic tax hikes and spending cuts would invite recession.   Republican Sen. Tom Coburn, a leading deficit hawk, said Wednesday that to avoid the crisis, he would support higher tax rates on wealthier Americans as part of a broader deal with Obama and congressional Democrats.   Homes, cars, jobs: Americans already making big decisions over fiscal cliff  "I know we have to raise revenue," the senator from Oklahoma told MSNBC. "I don't really care which way we do it. Actually, I would rather see rates go up than do it the other way, because it gives us a greater chance to reform the tax code and broaden the base in the future. "  Despite the public stance softening of some Republicans in each house, signs point to a continuing standoff. Obama and Boehner spoke on the phone Wednesday afternoon, for the first time in a week, according to a source familiar with the call. But the source said the conversation didn't lead to any breakthrough. And moving forward, no formal negotiating sessions are known to be scheduled, and congressional aides say no back-channel discussions are taking place.   The House is scheduled to adjourn for the year on December 14, but Boehner's number two, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, said Wednesday the chamber would remain in session until a fiscal cliff deal gets reached.   Read more: Americans make big choices over fiscal cliff  And Boehner said, "I'll be here and I'll be available at any moment to sit down with the president to get serious about solving this problem. "  Obama demands that the House immediately pass a measure already approved by the Senate to extend tax cuts for families making less than $250,000 a year while allowing rates to return to higher Clinton-era levels for wealthier households.   Democrats, including the president, argue that both sides agree that the 98% of Americans making less than $250,000 a year should avoid a tax hike when the tax cuts from the Bush administration expire on December 31. They call for the House to guarantee that outcome by passing the Senate measure now.   Once that happens, Obama and Democratic leaders promise, they will work out compromises on other spending cuts sought by Republicans to reduce the deficit, such as reforms to the Medicare and Medicaid entitlement programs.   The latest proposal from House Republicans could reduce the nation's chronic federal deficits by $2.2 trillion over 10 years.   The GOP proposal includes $800 billion from tax reform, $600 billion from Medicare reforms and other health savings and $600 billion in other spending cuts, House Republican leadership aides said. It also pledges $200 billion in savings by revising the consumer price index, a measure of inflation.   While the Republicans gave ground by calling for more revenue through tax reform, the plan only mentioned unspecified elimination of some deductions and loopholes.   Jason Furman, an assistant to Obama on economic policy, told reporters Wednesday that the president wants to ensure additional revenue from higher taxes on the wealthy now to help avoid the fiscal cliff. He described the Republican proposal for more revenue as lacking specifics.   "Tell us what it is. Show us a score," Furman said. "Tell us how it locks in revenue because you're trying to actually pass a bill this year, not engage in some long process around tax reform, which we don't have time to do by the end of this year. "  Opinion: Millionaires' tax bracket would be a smart compromise  While some Republican senators have blasted the House proposal, others have signaled a willingness to use it as a starting point.   Sen. Charles Grassley of Iowa, a senior Republican on the Finance Committee, said he would support Boehner's plan to raise revenue, but only if there is a "willingness on the part of Democrats to accept spending cuts that are three-to-one or four-to-one."   While the White House has made clear Obama will veto any measure that fails to increase tax rates on the wealthy, aides have signaled a possible willingness to negotiate the specific rate increase.   In an interview with Bloomberg TV, Obama said lower tax rates for the wealthy could be negotiated as part of broader tax reform in 2013, but only after those rates increase now.   Obama's deficit-reduction plan would increase taxes by almost $1 trillion over 10 years, a significant portion of a $4 trillion overall deficit-reduction goal.   It also would close loopholes, limit deductions, raise the estate tax rate to 2009 levels and increases tax rates on capital gains and dividends.   The Obama plan includes $50 billion in stimulus spending for programs intended to create jobs, such as repairing roads and bridges.   Experts have said failing to reach a fiscal cliff deal and devise a framework for a broader deficit reduction package to be negotiated when the new Congress is seated in January will cause economic turmoil.   The non-partisan Tax Policy Center estimates that middle-class families would pay about $2,000 a year more in taxes without action.   Read more: Same players, same disputes in fiscal cliff debate  CNN's Ted Barrett, Kate Bolduan, Deirdre Walsh, Paul Steinhauser, Jessica Yellin, Mark Morgenstein and Greg Botelho contributed to this report.
"It is unacceptable that children are killed while they play football. Israel hosting the UEFA Under-21 European Championship, in these circumstances, will be seen as a reward for actions that are contrary to sporting values," the statement said.   CNN has found no evidence that anyone was killed while playing football. But on November 10 as reported by CNN, four Palestinians were killed when Israeli tank fire hit a building east of Gaza City where mourners were gathered for a funeral, according to Palestinian medical sources. Israel said militants were targeted at several sites after an Israeli Defense Patrol came under attack, wounding four soldiers.   The statement on Kanoute's site adds: "Despite the recent ceasefire, Palestinians are still forced to endure a desperate existence under occupation, they must be protected by the international community. All people have the right to a life of dignity, freedom and security. We hope that a just settlement will finally emerge. "  Tel Aviv will host the European Under-21 Championship next June, when eight nations will compete in Israel.   European football's governing body UEFA has already rejected calls to move the tournament from pro-Palestine groups including the disputed territory's football association.   Refugee United: Palestinians debut at Homeless World Cup  "UEFA is an apolitical organization and (Israel) earned the right to host this competition through a fair, democratic vote," UEFA president Michel Platini said in June.   "I am sure that it will be a beautiful celebration of football that, once again, will bring people together. "  World football's governing body FIFA also says it does not interfere in countries' political affairs, but said it would help rebuild the stadium in Gaza -- as it did in 2006 following a similar attack.   "We see it our mandate to rebuild football infrastructure which has been destroyed," FIFA secretary general Jerome Valcke said last week.   "Football brings people together and we will support any reconstruction necessary when football infrastructure is destroyed through disasters. "  Palestine: A national soccer team without a nation  Valcke's statement was criticized by Israeli media, which reported that the stadium was used by Hamas militants to fire rockets at Jerusalem and Tel Aviv.   Palestine's bid for recognition was boosted last week when the U.N. general assembly voted to upgrade its status to that of a non-member observer state -- a move which was opposed by Israel and the U.S.  "We came to the United Nations not to confront the U.S. and not to isolate Israel or to discriminate Israel. We came to preserve the two-state solution," Chief Palestinian Negotiator Saeb Erakat told CNN's Piers Morgan.
No need to cut out dessert: The key is to eat strategically.   Happily, some major companies are getting on board. In the past four years, cereal brands have cut back on sugar, the milk industry recently lowered amounts in the chocolate milk served in schools, and Walmart is aiming for 10% less added sugar in select foods by 2015.   Health.com: 25 ways to cut 500 calories a day  We turned to experts to clear up the confusion over this tasty temptress. As Katz says, "There's a role for sugar in our diet. After all, what's the point of being healthy if it's not to enjoy living?"  Is there such thing as a sweet tooth?   Yes, sugar love is in your DNA. Researchers have found two sweet-receptor genes that can predict a preference for sweets.   How much is OK?   The American Heart Association (AHA) recommends most women get no more than 24 grams of added sugar per day. That's about six teaspoons, or 100 calories -- a little less than the amount in one can of soda. Thing is, the average American woman eats about 18 daily teaspoons.   Sugar is hidden in unlikely foods, from salad dressing to crackers, which can push you past 24 grams.   Read labels; if there's a sweetener in the first few ingredients (some common aliases: evaporated cane juice, high-fructose corn syrup, fruit juice concentrate, agave nectar, fructose, dextrose, and syrup), look for a brand with a low-or no-sugar option.   Health.com: Diet-busting foods you should never eat  Is it really so bad?   "Sugar is an important part of our lives," says Dr. Miriam Vos, assistant professor at Emory University School of Medicine. "But a little goes a long way." The AHA links added sugar to obesity, type II diabetes and cardiovascular disease.   In a nutshell, eating too much sugar can cause fat buildup in the liver, which can lead to these problems.   It's not all bad. "There's no need to avoid the naturally-occurring sugars in fruit, vegetables, and low- and nonfat dairy," says Rachel K. Johnson, professor of nutrition at the University of Vermont in Burlington.   As sweet as some of these things may taste, they contain relatively small amounts of sugar. Plus, nature's packaging comes with essential vitamins and minerals, along with water and fiber that slow the release of sugars into the bloodstream and prevent insulin spikes.   Health.com: 23 superfruits you need now  What's up with 'natural' sugars?   Sugar in the raw is no better than regular sugar. Agave nectar, alas, is also not great: Its main constituent, fructose, tends to get held up in the liver more than other types of sugar.   Some sweeteners, like raw honey and sucanat, have trace nutrients, but they're all the same as white sugar in terms of calories -- and some contain even more calories.   Is it OK to use calorie-free sweeteners?   Yes! The FDA deems stevia, aspartame (Equal), sucralose (Splenda), and other cal-free sweeteners safe. "Short-term data suggests they're safer than table sugar," says Kimber Stanhope, a nutritional biologist at the University of California-Davis.   Faux sugar won't cause blood-sugar spikes or weight gain -- and all the potential health ills. As Stanhope says, "I use them because I can't afford the extra calories! "  Copyright Health Magazine 2011
Dozens rush over to witness, Jafra is the first to arrive.   The woman who has discovered the specimen uses an ice pick to prod the earth and dig a hole about six inches in diameter. She then lifts a clump of earth up and sifts out the specimen. The crowd gossips about its value -- "it's small, only 300 rupees!" (about $3). A middle man will offer her that amount, then walk it to a market in Tibet and sell it for three times the price.   Jafra explains: "We pay attention when other people find them. This is our first time coming for the harvest. We've been here for nearly a week. We haven't found anything, because we don't know what they look like -- we don't know what we're looking for. "  See also: Himalayan glaciers 'buck melting trend'  Like many others, Ram and his brothers traveled for the harvest betting on hope alone. "People in our village talked about the money to be earned, so we came," he says.   The rumors of riches are not baseless. According to experts, the market value of yartsa gunbu has increased by 900% between 1997 and 2008.   One study says 500 grams of top quality yartsa gunbu can sell for up to $13,000 in Lhasa, Tibet, or up to $26,000 in Shanghai. Average annual income in Nepal's rural mid-and-far-western hills, where many harvesters live, is just $283, according to the government.   Police in Dolpa expect 40,000 people to migrate to the district this year. The influx of migrant harvesters speaks volumes to the increasing global commodification of yartsa gunbu. Prized in traditional Tibetan and Chinese medicinal practices for its power as an elixir or an aphrodisiac, in recent years commercial dubbing of the product as "Himalayan Viagra" has driven up both demand and market value around the world.   But the unprecedented flood of harvesters has observers concerned about the environmental impacts of this informal economic boom.   "Look at the hills," says Gyalpo Thandin, a student in Dolpa, "they're all torn up from people digging. By next year they'll be deserts. "  Thandin, who was visiting home for the harvest, remembers when the yartsa gunbu season meant local bounty, not commercial competition. "Just five years ago the numbers were lower," he says. "Every year we see more people come and more grasslands get damaged. People who come hack at the land with tools and leave it to dry out. "  He says his family's yaks have died in recent winters due to depleted grass caused by the harvest.   See also: Bringing Nepal's ghost town back to life  Environmental protection measures offer some hope. Six years ago, a committee of community leaders in Dolpa instituted a taxation system on harvesters in an effort to control numbers and ensure the local community remained resilient amidst environmental changes.   The committee charges locals 1,000 rupees ($11) and outsiders 3,000 rupees ($33) to join the harvest. The system is intended to spend the money on environmental protection measures and to subsidize food for villages in the district.   Similar systems exist in harvest areas across the Himalayas. However, some worry the measure is ineffective.   A former committee member who spoke on the condition of anonymity suggests that charging admission to the harvest has only made it seem even more valuable, and as a result, drawn more harvesters. "The goal of the system was to charge people and therefore limit the number who would want to come for the harvest, but putting a price on the entry might actually be encouraging more people," he says.   A leading expert on Himalayan caterpillar fungus, ecologist and geographer Daniel Winkler, believes the future of the harvests is contingent on many factors -- collection intensity, rainfall, and climate change among them.   "Centuries of collection indicate that caterpillar fungus is a relatively resilient resource," he says.   But his research suggests that over-harvesting is contributing to fewer fungal spores being around for the next season. Winkler believes education is the key element to promoting sustainable resource conservation.   "Knowledge of fungal reproduction ... and (establishing) an end-date to the collection season might allow for sufficient spore dispersal to guarantee sustainability," he adds.   As communities in Nepal, one of the world's poorest countries, cope with the economic need and the increasing desire for high-value commodities like yartsa gunbu, conservation efforts will require cooperation between leaders at village, district, and national levels. There is no question this Himalayan "gold rush" buoys rural economies. Keeping it around for future generations will be the challenge.
The search began Wednesday afternoon and wrapped up at 3 a.m. Thursday at the couple's New Jersey house, said Robert Gottlieb, who represents Rosemary Hernandez.   He said his client "doesn't know what they were looking for." The satchels contained personal items including paperwork belonging to Rosemary Hernandez, he said.   Gottlieb said his client was home during the search and cooperated fully. "An assistant prosecutor called me before investigators entered the house and asked whether she was willing to be there to offer assistance, and she did. She was there in five, 10 minutes. "  Rosemary Hernandez feels that her husband's confession is unreliable and is coming from a mentally ill man, Gottlieb said.   The suspect, who is being held without bail at New York's Bellevue Hospital, is receiving a medication called olanzapine, according to a source familiar with his medical history. The drug is used to treat symptoms of schizophrenia, according to the National Institutes of Health.   Pedro Hernandez admitted choking the boy after luring him into the basement of a bodega, a small grocery store, on May 25, 1979, police said. Etan's remains have not been found.   His attorney previously told a judge that Hernandez has a history of mental disorders, suffers from hallucinations and is bipolar.   "Mrs. Hernandez has seen her husband's delusions and hallucinations and other mental illnesses for a very long period of time," Gottlieb said.   He would not elaborate on the mental disorders, nor would he provide an example of what his client observed.   "She does not believe the confession at all," Gottlieb said.   Investigators have been trying to build a case against Hernandez, looking for evidence to back up his statements to them.   Police have said they have no other evidence or a motive to support his confession.   A relative has said she reported that Hernandez told family members in the 1980s that he killed a boy in New York. Norma Hernandez, the suspect's sister, said she went to police in Camden, New Jersey, back then but felt that they didn't believe her. Police have said they have no record of that report. Hernandez said her brother also told a prayer group about killing a boy.   Gottlieb said he was asked to represent the wife because of her growing frustration over the case and her desire to make sure prosecutors "understand the severity and nature of the mental illnesses. "  A spokesman for the district attorney's office had no comment Wednesday.   Rosemary Hernandez has not seen her husband at Bellevue Hospital but has spoken to him by telephone. "It's a very difficult time for her and her daughter," Gottlieb said.   Pedro Hernandez's next court appearance is scheduled for June 25.
The following is an edited transcript.   CNN: How has writing about Elvis Cole and Joe Pike changed over the course of the series?  Crais: I really strive to bring something new to each book. I don't want to write the same book over and over again. I've done Elvis books; I've done Joe books; I've done mixed books, but this time, I made a conscious decision I wanted to tell a story where I could split the book pretty much down the middle and give them 50-50 equal footing so they both have their starring roles. When I discovered this particular story, it just seemed a perfect way to do that. Part of the book, they're working together. Then there's Elvis' track through the story, and there's Joe track, where he's trying to find Elvis and save him. So it just seemed like an ideal way to let these guys share the stage.   CNN: In "Taken," the story jumps between several points of view and moves back and forth in time. How difficult was it to put together?   Crais: It was like a crazy puzzle that kept changing. You should have seen my office. I have these huge black foam boards on the wall, and tacked to them, I have these white punch cards with my story ideas, scenes and notes. I kept juggling these cards and amending them, making little scrawls on them. Notions came to me, things changed, and I literally shuffled them around like a deck of cards, trying to bring them all into focus so the events were as exciting as I could make them.   CNN: How do you start a novel? What comes first, an idea, an image, a scene?   Crais: It could be any of the above, but it's usually an image, almost always driven by a character moment. In "Taken," it was the notion of Krista Morales and her hunger to know more about her mother's experience that night in the desert. I just saw her. It was literally my first image in the book. I saw her staring out into the black desert sky with this open-eyed wonder, trying to see the path her mother took to get to this country. All I had was her face in the moonlight, staring out there, and I just knew whatever she's looking for, I want to find. That was the engine that really kicked off the rest of the book.   CNN: "Taken" revolves around a kidnapping on the U.S.-Mexico border by bajadores. What prompted you to write about these bandits?   Crais: I had heard about these atrocious mass graves uncovered in Mexico south of the border: 52 people in one grave, 87 people in another, 164 bodies at a ranch with multiple burial sites. If you watch the news at all, you know Mexico is pretty much defining itself now as a war between the government and the various drug cartels. South of the border is fairly well-patrolled by armed groups of thugs who work for the cartels, and those guys end up preying on civilians, policemen and government officials, but they also prey on each other.   I found out most of the people who were found in those mass graves were immigrants who were headed North from as far away as Central America. They were trying to get to the U.S., and somewhere along the way, cartel bandits or "bajadores" would kidnap them, rob them, force them to call their families or employers or whoever and try to extort additional money out of them. When there was no more money to be had, they would just be murdered and buried in mass graves. The business was literally stealing people. The nature of this victim was very moving to me.   When you consider that the victim is basically an innocent, penniless person who's just trying to find a way to make his or her life better was super appealing to me, and it seemed like the type of people that Elvis and Joe would sympathize with and risk their lives to try and save.   CNN: While there's lots of action in your books, it seems like the friendship between Elvis and Joe is what keeps readers coming back.   Crais: Sure. The books are about Elvis and Joe. The books are about their friendship and who they are as men and human beings. I think that's why the readership has grown the way it has and why readers keep coming back to them. There's a value to their friendship that I think people admire and envy and want in their own lives. I know I do, so I kind of attribute it to other people, too. I would love to have either Elvis or Joe, preferably both, as my friends. They're certainly interesting guys, and we can live vicariously through them for their adventures, but there's something beautiful about these two guys and about having someone so trustworthy and dependable in your life. It's very comforting, I think.   CNN: Has the success of the series surpassed your expectations?   Crais: I'm certainly thrilled by the reaction. Honestly, I never would have thought the characters would have become as popular as they have. In the beginning, my dream was simply to make a living at it. I wanted to be a writer. I wanted to earn a living, but it never occurred to me that the books would become bestsellers. I mean, I'm glad, but none of this was by design. I wrote these guys because they're guys I wanted to spend time with.   Writing a book is a long and difficult process for me. I'm a slow writer, so I spend the year with Elvis Cole and Joe Pike in my head. I was thinking about this the other day. I wrote the first book in 1987. Literally every day since that time, Elvis and Joe have been in my head. They're always there. I started these guys because I like them. I still like spending time with them, and I think that's probably the reason the readers have embraced Elvis and Joe the way they have. Whenever there's a new book, they want to refresh that friendship.   CNN: Despite many lucrative offers, you've never sold the screen rights to Elvis and Joe. Why is that?   Crais: It's pretty simple. You know the old saying, if it ain't broke, don't fix it? I'm concerned that if there's a film of Elvis and Joe, that somehow it will interfere with the collaboration I have with my readers. I'm the first to admit this is probably a knuckleheaded fear on my part, but I have it nevertheless. Books are a collaborative art. Elvis and Joe don't exist until someone picks up one of the books and reads it. In the act of reading, you and I collaborate, and Elvis and Joe come to life inside your head.   What I've learned over time is that the Elvis and Joe you see and hear in your head, they are only yours. There might be however many hundreds of thousands of other people who've read "Taken," and each and every one of them is going to have a unique Elvis and Joe. It's going to be a little bit different from everybody else's because we all bring our own stuff to this. I find that wonderful.   To me, that is the great thing about books, and I guess part of me is a little scared that if I let Hollywood get involved, and even if there's a really good movie made, that somehow once you've seen the film, when you come back to the new book next year, that collaboration that you and I have is going to be a little bit different. Because then, the movie is going to have inserted itself. So I'm really jealous and guarded about that. I want your Elvis and Joe to be a product of yours and mine and nothing else.   Read an excerpt from "Taken" and find out more about Robert Crais on his website.
As day broke on Tuesday, four people were killed across Syria, opposition activists said. At least 144 people were reported killed Monday, including 64 who died in a "horrifying massacre" at a checkpoint in Homs province.   Those killed at a checkpoint in the Abel area were attempting to flee shelling in the Baba Amr neighborhood in the city of Homs, said the Local Coordination Committees of Syria, a network of opposition activists.   "Reports said security members and thugs kidnapped the women among them," the network said in a statement. Residents found 47 corpses in one area and 17 in a second one, it said.   A total of 68 corpses were found in the area, in farmland in western Homs province, said the opposition Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, apparently referencing the same incident. The bodies were found after an injured survivor reported the attack, the group said. All the bodies had been either shot or stabbed.   In all, 104 people were killed Monday in Homs, an opposition stronghold, according to the LCC. They included four defected soldiers, three woman and three children.   The deaths came on a day when Syrian officials announced that the nation's new draft constitution received approval and the European Union imposed new sanctions on the country amid ongoing clashes.   The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said earlier explosions rocked Homs and shelling was occurring in Baba Amr. Twenty people were wounded when a large shell struck an anti-government gathering in Homs, the group said.   Meanwhile, Interior Minister Mohammed al-Shaar announced that 89.4% of voters approved the draft constitution, and 57.4% of eligible voters cast ballots. President Bashar al-Assad's regime has touted the constitutional referendum as a move toward reform.   Syria announced the referendum amid intense international cries to stop the bloodshed and open its regime to change. But analysts and protesters widely describe the effort as a farce, a superficial attempt to pacify al-Assad's critics.   "We dismiss it as absolutely cynical. ... Essentially, what he's done here is put a piece of paper that he controls to a vote that he controls so that he can try and maintain control," U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said of the referendum and al-Assad.   She cited the ongoing violence in such cities as Homs and Hama and asked: "How could you possibly have any kind of a democratic process in conditions like that? "  Aid efforts were under way in the midst of the violence.   The Syrian Red Crescent and the International Committee of the Red Cross entered the province of Hama on Monday to provide aid to civilians, said Simon Schorno, spokesman for the Red Cross. A one-month supply of food, along with blankets and hygiene kits, were distributed to 12,000 people, he said.   Beatrice Megevand-Roggo, the Red Cross' head of operations for the Middle East, said a handful of aid workers were also able to go into Baba Amr.   "There were four ambulances that entered Baba Amr, belonging to the Syrian Red Crescent. They were loaded with medical goods. They indeed were not able to evacuate the two foreign journalists. I don't have the reasons why. They could evacuate an elderly woman, a pregnant woman with her husband," she said.   The two journalists Megevand-Roggo was referencing were British photographer Paul Conroy and French reporter Edith Bouvier. Both were wounded in shelling.   Red Cross spokesman Hicham Hassan said aid workers were also not able Monday to recover and evacuate the bodies of two journalists killed in Baba Amr last week.   Marie Colvin, an American journalist who worked for London's Sunday Times, was killed in a shelling attack, along with French journalist Remi Ochlik. Colvin's mother, Rosemarie, said Sunday that aid workers have been trying for days to remove her daughter's body.   CNN and other media outlets cannot independently verify opposition or government reports because Syria has severely limited access to the country by foreign journalists. But the vast majority of reports from the ground indicate that government forces are massacring citizens in an attempt to wipe out civilians seeking al-Assad's ouster.   No attempts at getting al-Assad to stop his regime's crackdown on dissidents have stopped the onslaught.   The Council of the European Union agreed Monday on new sanctions regarding Syria after foreign ministers met in Brussels, Belgium, said spokeswoman Susanne Kiefer.   Seven ministers of the al-Assad regime will have their EU assets frozen and will be denied entry into the EU, Kiefer said. In addition, assets of the Syrian Central Bank in the EU will be frozen. Legitimate trade will be allowed to continue, she said, but must be authorized first.   "Today's decisions will put further pressure on those who are responsible for the ruthless campaign of repression in Syria," Catherine Ashton, the EU foreign policy chief, said in a statement. "The measures target the regime and its ability to conduct the appalling violence against civilians. As long as the repression continues, the EU will keep imposing sanctions. "  Elsewhere in Syria on Monday, two people were killed and eight wounded by government shelling on the village of Sarmeen in Idlib province, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said.   The shelling began Sunday night, and Syrian troops have entered Sarmeen, said Abu Mustafa al-Sayed, a Syrian opposition and community leader in the town of Binnish, also in Idlib province. The Syrian army has Sarmeen surrounded, and communications with the residents have been cut off, he said.   And in Damascus, security forces fired on mourners at a funeral, according to the Local Coordination Committees. Clashes were also occurring in Deir Ezzor, the group said, and 14 students were arrested during a protest at Aleppo University.   The opposition network estimates that 9,000 people have been killed since the government launched its crackdown in March. The Syrian government says that more than 2,000 members of its security forces have been killed by "terrorists" during that same period.   Asked Monday whether Syria would be referred to the International Criminal Court, French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said, "I hope the international community reflects on the conditions of referral. ... It's a difficult issue. Syria is not a participating state, so it's up to the Security Council to address this question. They must therefore continue to gather the elements that would permit an eventual referral. "  CNN's Jo Shelley, Per Nyberg, Salma Abdelaziz, Jack Maddox, Hamdi Alkshali and Kareem Khadder and journalist Mohamed Fadel Fahmy contributed to this report.
Her attorney, Brett McArthur, told CNN Tuesday night that Rogers had agreed as part of an arrangement to turn herself in, in exchange for a personal recognizance bond.   "She did not have to post any money" to be released, McArthur said, adding that his client pleaded not guilty to the charge of lying to police.   "She maintains her innocence. This has been kind of a kick in the gut as a victim to turn around and be charged," McArthur said.   In a news release, police cited DNA and pathologists' examinations that did not substantiate Rogers' original statements, and changes in her story during the investigation.   "These were serious allegations that garnered national attention and spread fear among local citizens," the police statement said. "A great deal of time and resources were spent investigating Charlie Rogers' claims in hopes of identifying and arresting the three suspects in this case."  Beth Rigatuso, president of Heartland Pride based in Omaha, organized a vigil that attracted over 1,000 people in the aftermath of the reported attack.   For her, the news that it may have been a hoax is "a pretty big blow. "  "I don't feel betrayed as much as I feel sad for how, if this is really true...there is a lot of things going on with her," Rigatuso said. "It leads to a bigger problem in our society that someone would do this. "  Rigatuso said she hopes people would not turn their backs on Rogers now.   The vigil she put together in Omaha raised more than $1,800, all of which was deposited in an account for Rogers.   "We'd like to get the funds returned to us so we can establish our own fund to support victims of anti-gay violence." Rigatuso said Tuesday.   McArthur, Rogers' attorney, said he "knows nothing" about the fund or how much money might be in it. He said it was in place before he became Rogers' lawyer.   According to the Lincoln Police Department complaint, Rogers, 33, provided information "she knew to be false" with the intent to "instigate an investigation of an alleged criminal matter. "  Rogers reported to police that she was lying on her bed when the alleged attackers held her down and carved "derogatory words" into her arms and abdomen and "a cross" in her chest. She told police she was then rolled onto her stomach where more cuts were made.   But according to a deposition from Lincoln police investigator Lynette Russell filed as part of the complaint, Rogers bedspread was "evenly placed on the bed and no apparent sign of a struggle." A DNA lab test found no evidence of blood on the bedspread.   Russell also described a pair of white gloves found at the scene that Rogers had said were not hers.   "Ms. Rogers DNA profile was the major contributor to the DNA located on the inside of the gloves," Russell said.   Furthermore, the deposition said, the FBI sent photos of Rogers' cuts to a forensic pathologist, who believed the wounds to be self-inflicted.   "This opinion is based partially on the fact that the cuts appeared superficial and symmetrical, avoided sensitive areas of the body,...are accessible to the victim and follow the victim's frame of reference for reading and writing," the deposition said.   Rumors had been circulating in recent weeks in Lincoln and on the Internet due to the fact that police had yet to pinpoint any suspects. The urge to respond to rumors prompted Rogers to give her one and only interview.   "For people to think this doesn't happen here, it does," Rogers told CNN affiliate KETV on July 27. "It did. "  She refused to discuss the incident itself during that interview.   Rogers' attorney at the time, Megan Mikolajczyk, told CNN her client was ready for a full interview early last week, but canceled saying "things have changed. "  Mikolajczyk said Tuesday that she is no longer Rogers' attorney.   According to neighbor Linda Rappl, Rogers' showed up on her doorstep bloodied in the early morning hours immediately following the alleged attack last month.   "I was in shock," Rappl said soon after the incident. "She was naked, her hands were tied with zip ties. All I could see was a cut across her forehead and blood running down. "  Rappl said she took the sobbing Rogers inside and wrapped her in a blanket before calling 911.
It's not clear whether Pedro Hernandez -- described by police as an off-the-books former stock boy turned 51-year-old murder suspect -- was ever interviewed in the initial case. But more than three decades after Etan vanished, authorities say Hernandez confessed to the boy's killing after being brought in for questioning last week.   Hernandez has since been charged with second degree murder and is currently awaiting trial. But attorney Harvey Fishbein said his client -- who is currently on suicide watch at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan -- has not entered a plea due to a pending psychiatric evaluation.   According to police, the former stock clerk claims he lured Etan to the store's basement with the promise of a soda before choking him to death. He then allegedly disposed of the body using a plastic bag, placing the boy inside a trash bin located a block and a half away from his work.   "The detectives thought (that confession) was a feeling of relief on his part," said Police Commissioner Ray Kelly, who described Hernandez as remorseful.   Prosecutors are now confronted with the task of corroborating that confession and piecing together a murder mystery that for decades has been littered with false positives.   The image of Hernandez, meanwhile, has gradually come into focus as attention homes in on the reclusive suspect who, according to his attorney, apparently suffers from a "long psychiatric history" that includes schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and hallucinations.   The Hernandez family -- a large clan consisting of 11 brothers and sisters -- moved from Puerto Rico to southern New Jersey in the early 1970s, a relative told CNN.   Pedro Hernandez attended high school in the Camden, New Jersey, area before moving to Manhattan at the age of 18, sharing an apartment in the city's SoHo neighborhood with his older sister.   Sometime after his 19th birthday, Hernandez took a job as a stock clerk at a corner convenience store. He worked in the Lower Manhattan bodega for roughly a month before returning to his mother's south Jersey home in the summer of 1979, according to family members and police.   Etan disappeared roughly a month earlier on May 25.   Describing Hernandez as having been a quiet young man, relatives say his demeanor changed upon his return to New Jersey. He grew further withdrawn while also frequently becoming ill, they said.   Though his whereabouts after 1979 remain murky, family members say at one point he returned to New York. It's unclear for how long.   Police Commissioner Kelly told reporters last week that Hernandez was injured during a construction job sometime in the 1990s and has since been receiving disability compensation. But a relative claims that the suspect was instead injured during his employment at a clothing factory in Maple Shade, New Jersey.   Twice married, Hernandez fathered a daughter and settled down with a woman named Rosemary, his second wife, who relatives say had always had a crush on him.   But financial troubles followed, and the couple filed for bankruptcy in 1999, according to court documents.   Still, those who claim to know Hernandez offer mixed impressions of his character.   Roberto Monticello, a former SoHo resident who says he knew Hernandez in New York at the time of Etan's disappearance, described him as a "very strange guy. "  "He was always by himself," Monticello recalled to CNN affiliate NY1. "(I) never saw him with people. "  His pastor, George Bowen, called him a "very quiet, unassuming, almost shy man," who attended church regularly with his wife and daughter, often sitting in the same pew.   "Every Sunday morning I had a conversation with him," said Bowen, who described the interaction as "more or less a greeting. "  But the suspect's sister, Norma Hernandez, said their family had for years grappled with the knowledge of her brother's alleged crime.   She says she once walked into a Camden police station in the early 1980s to report the murder, telling authorities that her brother confessed to killing a boy in New York and throwing the body near a dumpster.   But, she says, there's no indication that anything ever came out of that report.   "You feel like they didn't believe you," Norma Hernandez told CNN. "I was expecting something else. "  "Police asked whether I was mad" at her brother or had an ulterior motive, she said.   Pedro Hernandez allegedly confided in a church prayer group that included members of his family and his then-spiritual adviser, his sister said, telling them of the alleged killing.   Camden police and Tomas Rivera, a leader of the prayer group, declined to comment.   But Lisa Cohen, whose 2009 book, "After Etan," is widely considered the definitive account of the case, said she remains skeptical about the man's confession, widely considered the signature element of his prosecution.   "I had never heard of Pedro Hernandez before this week," she told CNN.   A separate law enforcement source said Hernandez's claims were being treated with "a healthy dose of skepticism. "  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance ultimately gave the green light to file murder charges against Hernandez, despite the absence of forensic evidence, witness testimony and lingering questions over his mental state.   CNN's Ross Levitt and Chris Boyette contributed to this report.
But the top players in the country at that time, 80% of them didn't just come from the same town or the same suburb, but from the very same street.   Olympic goal: A swimmer's story  "There hadn't been a genetic mutation -- we happened to have the best coach who gave us access to the only 24-hour club.   "So we practiced before school, after school, at weekends, on holidays. Over many years, we transformed ourselves from perfectly ordinary players into world-class players."  So does practice in itself make the world's top athletes perfect? Not necessarily, according to mental performance coach Andy Barton.   "Practice doesn't make perfect," he says. "You only have to think of your handwriting for instance, how as you get older the more you write the worse you get.   "Only perfect practice will make perfect. To improve you have to be very specific about what you are aiming to do and target it. "  It is a view supported by Syed, who suggests that the willingness of top athletes to push themselves further and further in practice pays dividends when it comes to high-pressure competition.   "It's interesting, for example, that world-class ice dancers fall over more often in practice than intermediate ice dancers, which sounds paradoxical," he said.   "The reason is they are always pushing themselves, they are attempting jumps that are at the outer limits of their capabilities. It's a branch of science called 'epigenetics' -- the brain is re-wired as we practice. "  Once athletes have meticulously honed their skills, they should, in theory, have all the tools at their disposal to achieve success. But in high-pressure situations, even the greatest can crumble.   What causes a footballer to crack under the nail-biting strain of a penalty shootout? Or a tennis star to fall apart at match point?   "The problem when you're under pressure is you're so nervous you start thinking consciously about the shot you are playing," Syed says.   "You are intruding upon your subconscious competence, and that is what triggers the choking response. "  So how can Olympians preparing for London 2012 ensure they are mentally ready to challenge for gold? Barton suggested that imagining the crowning moment is almost as important as physically training for it.   "The thing about when we mentally rehearse something vividly, it actually fires up the same neurology in the brain as if we were really experiencing it. So on a certain level the mind cannot differentiate between a vividly-imagined experience and reality.   "What we need to do is to create our own realities in our heads so you can imagine yourself in that Olympic final, for instance, performing how you want to perform.   "The more you actually do that, the more your body and mind get used to it, so when you come to the real thing, you're more prepared. "  So the next time you find yourself daydreaming of sprinting to 100 meters gold, don't dismiss it -- it might just be vital preparation for your future Olympic success.
Bang.   Nawroz falls to the ground.   Two more shots ring out.   The warlord ordered the man to pull the trigger twice, but he kept on, unable to deliver a swift fatal shot.   "Stop shooting, you donkey," the spectators say.   "He's still alive," says one.   But not for long.   This is not a video taken before 2001, in the days when the Taliban ruled and Kabul's stadium was reserved not for soccer, but public executions. It's from last month.   After a decade of the U.S.-led war to defeat extremism in Afghanistan, feudal justice still exists.   In remote Kand, outside the reach of NATO or the Afghan government, warlord Mullah Mustafa and his men rule by the gun. Mustafa helps keep the Taliban at bay, the people say, so the government lets him run his own fiefdom.   It's not the sort of compromise the United States imagined a decade ago, bringing a type of justice that's swift and brutal.   Human Rights Watch has said that in large parts of Afghanistan, no formal judicial system is in place and only tribal and other customary forms of justice are practiced.   And a scathing report issued last year by the International Crisis Group described Afghanistan's judicial system as being "in a catastrophic state of disrepair.   "A growing majority of Afghans have been forced to accept the rough justice of Taliban and criminal power brokers in areas of the country that lie beyond government control. "  The report went on to say that the United States has not paid the same attention to justice reform as it has to other aspects of nation building.   "Its investment in judicial institutions is modest, as opposed to the billions invested in standing up the Afghan army and police," the report said.   The U.S. Agency for International Development allocated only 1% of its Afghanistan budget between 2002 and 2007 -- $64 million -- to supporting the establishment of rule of law, the report said.   Human rights monitors have pressed President Hamid Karzai's government to prioritize the establishment of a professional judiciary. But Nawroz's execution is more evidence that Afghanistan has a long way to go.   There have been other cases that have sparked outrage.   In 2006, Abdul Rahman was arrested and threatened with death for converting to Christianity. Last year, the Taliban ordered the first public executions by stoning since their fall from power -- a young couple who had eloped died in horrific fashion.   Jalaludin, who witnessed Nawroz's execution, said Mustafa gathered local mullahs to reach a verdict according to sharia, or Islamic law.   "The mullahs asked the father to forgive Nawroz and to take some of his family's land and women in compensation," he said. "But the father refused, so the mullahs ordered an execution. "  Nawroz tried to buy his release, but Mustafa refused, Jalaludin said. He's not one to take bribes.   After the killing, Nawroz first said he had been helped by his cousins, according to Abdul Gafor, one of Nawroz's cousins.   "For that reason, we were interrogated and beaten a lot during the questioning," Gafor said.   But later, when questioned by Mustafa, Nawroz changed his story and said he had killed alone, Gafor said.   Another cousin, Sikander, wished for law and order.   "We'd like strong government," he said. "There's no police or government presence here, and Mullah Mustafa has government contacts. "  Nawroz was a man whose jealousy allegedly led him to kill the man married to his lover. It's a story that has played out countless times in countless places. But here, in Kand, there was no trial, no jury of peers. Nawroz's punishment was strictly an eye for an eye, meted out in frightful fashion.   CNN's Nick Paton Walsh reported from Kabul, Afghanistan, and Moni Basu reported from Atlanta.
While we can't do anything about the fact that "no one even says oops when they're passing their gas" and "even kids'll kick your shins and give you sass" (yep, "Chicago" again), we offer the following solutions in the war on class. Identify your own faux pas and make the Web a bit less of a bubbling swamp of vulgarity.   Tacky tactic: Posting detailed, passive-aggressive grievances about other people in your circle on your blog, Facebook, Twitter, etc., a la "It's really interesting to me how SOME people think it's totally OK to be nice to your face and then send texts to your boyfriend telling him he could do better, ESPECIALLY when said people wear fake colored contact lenses and ill-fitting clothes and are named Jenny Jenkins. #justsaying. "  Classy fix: When you have beef with one person and yet feel the need to involve hundreds of others, you don't come off as righteous. You look childish and a bit foolish. In fact, research shows that gossipmongers are seen as unlikable and weak.   If you have something to say to someone, say it to her face (book): E-mail or message her privately. Or better yet, call her or ask whether you can talk in person and -- calmly and without screeching or flailing about -- talk it out. Staying cool as a cucumber won't just be classy, it'll scare the crap out of whomever you're confronting. A classy foe is so much more persuasive than a hysterical one.   Tacky tactic: Making big announcements via TMI photos: the new baby, seconds after birth and still gooey; your newly deceased father-in-law on a gurney, moments before they wheeled him away; you passed out next to the toilet after celebrating your new job offer, etc.   Classy fix: Honestly, most big announcements don't require an accompanying photo. A cheerful update about the baby's weight and health, a solemn link to the service announcement and an excited sentence about your new gig would suffice.   Eventually your friends and loved ones will want you to share a photo of the cleaned-up baby. But trust us: Your friends want you to be out there celebrating achievements and dealing with losses, not busily tapping away on your smartphone every second of the day. (To put it another way: You're not nearly as interesting to everyone else as you think you are. Hard truth of the day.)   Tacky tactic: Assuming every digital contact is a willing financial supporter (and prefers to be contacted a dozen times a day).   So you're planning a self-booked, 12-country mission trip? Forming a nonprofit to neuter feral cats in the neighborhood? Kicking off that company of hard-plastic containers for the transportation of raw fruit that you've been talking about? Good for you. Not so good for us if you continue tagging us in daily Facebook notes or spamming us with bullying messages along the lines of "Your contribution is ABSOLUTELY CRITICAL to the success of Spay & Play, so it is ESSENTIAL that you donate as much as you can. "  Classy fix: Use a carrot, not a stick, to drum up support. Set up a Kickstarter campaign with a low funding limit and offer incentives for different contributions. Send kind, flattering, personalized appeals to different potential donors ("I thought this might interest you since you're familiar with startup nonprofits, and I'd love to take you out for coffee and benefit from your wisdom even if a financial contribution isn't possible right now") and leave them alone if one followup note goes unanswered.   At the end of the day, like when you're penniless in your 11th country or chest-deep in feral kitties, you want a venture funded by willing donors and well-wishing supporters, not ticked-off friends who are paying you hush money.
A judge ruled Wednesday that the officers will stand trial in the beating death last July of Kelly Thomas, a 37-year-old homeless man afflicted with schizophrenia.   Cpl. Jay Patrick Cicinelli is charged with involuntary manslaughter and felony use of excessive force. Officer Manuel Ramos faces the more serious charge of second-degree murder, because prosecutors believe he took a more active role in the assault. Both officers have pleaded not guilty.   This week, at the preliminary hearing to determine whether enough evidence supports proceeding with a trial, prosecutors aired a graphic video of the savage beating. The footage shows about a half dozen officers punching and kicking and putting pressure on Thomas' chest, firing electric shocks from a Taser stun gun, all to supposedly subdue a suspect well beyond the point where he is resisting or capable of resisting arrest.   Early on, Ramos appears to tell the young man who is sitting on the ground: "You see my fists? They're getting ready to f--- you up!" Another police officer is heard saying: "We ran out of options so I got to the end of my Taser and I ... smashed his face to hell. "  By the end of the video, Thomas is lying in a pool of blood. According to prosecutors, the young man suffered brain injuries, facial fractures, broken ribs and extensive bruises and abrasions. He died five days later.   What we see in that 33 minutes of footage, including a defenseless Thomas screaming in pain, saying he's sorry and pleading for help, should never happen in the United States of America. When it does happen, it can't be tolerated, justified, or excused.   That's coming from the son of a retired cop. My father wore a badge for 36 years, and he has no stomach for police brutality. In fact, about 20 years ago, when another piece of videotape surfaced -- that of the Rodney King beating by police officers in 1991 -- I remember my father telling me that, as far as he was concerned, those out-of-control law enforcement officers wailing on King had ceased being cops and become little more than thugs and criminals.   As it turns out, Thomas' father is also a retired law enforcement officer. After his son died, Ron Thomas made it his mission to make sure the story got out and would not be forgotten. He used social media and the Internet to show the world what those officers had done to his son, complete with graphic photos that he took at the side of Kelly Thomas' hospital bed.   This is a good dad. But he was also, apparently, a good cop who trained fellow deputies on the right way to take down suspects. This is the wrong way. Thomas described the officers' actions as nothing less than a "hate crime against the homeless and mentally ill."   Last year, Fullerton city officials offered Thomas nearly a million dollars to settle the case. He turned it down, and instead pushed for a criminal trial.   This should bring some small comfort to Ron Thomas. He needs it. He has to carry around with him for the rest of his life that, as his son was fighting for his life, he cried out for his father to protect him from these bullies. On the video, we hear Kelly Thomas screaming: "Daddy, help! They're killing me!" As a father myself, those words break my heart.   "Daddy, help! They're killing me!"   He was killed. And now, if the cops are convicted of this crime, they have to pay.
The former House speaker told the congregation that President Washington would not have apologized "to those who are killing us."  Now, besides the fact Obama did not apologize "to those who are killing us" or that our generals also apologized for the mistake or that the Lord's Prayer asks God to forgive us of our trespasses as we forgive those who have trespassed against us -- I'm trying to figure out who, besides a "Jeopardy!" contestant, whips out a George Washington card in the first place?   That's the problem with Gingrich and the other GOP challengers. It seems they have mistaken their base's fervor to defeat Obama for a fervor to hear them pander.   Remember Gingrich's moon base speech while he was campaigning near NASA? Or Mitt Romney quoting "America the Beautiful" while in Iowa, saying: "If you count corn as an amber wave of grain, why, you have them right here. What a wonderful place this is. "  Seriously, who says that?    The GOP's once credible attacks on the president's record have morphed into an incredible attack on the country's intelligence. That change is reflected by Obama's double-digit lead over the GOP field.   While "amber waves of grain" is pretty bad, I thought Romney showing up in Michigan last fall saying, "The trees are the right height. The grass is the right color for this time of year, kind of a brownish-greenish sort of thing. It just feels right," was as low as pandering could go.   Then he showed up in Detroit a couple of days ago and repeated that the "trees are the right height."   Hurling out chunks of red meat at a rally is a longstanding practice. Massaging a position to suit the polls, or support the party, is something voters don't like, but we understand the rationale.   But telling a crowd you love their trees and dead grass? Ridiculous.   Granted, some of us are gullible enough to give each other high-fives because Rick Santorum called Obama a snob for promoting a college education.    But the rest of us look at "Slick Rick's" college degree, law degree and MBA, the fact that he's sending his kids to college and owns at least six properties, and has earned millions, and wonder -- What is he talking about? Virtually every socioeconomic study looking at the intersection of income and education shows a direct correlation between the two. For Santorum to vilify higher education for political gain -- while obviously benefiting from attending universities -- is embarrassing. Then saying that John F. Kennedy's famous 1960 speech standing up for the separation of church and state made him want to throw up?   Well, that makes me nauseous.   Sometimes it seems as if Santorum and the others are content with pushing each other closer and closer to the edge of idiocy because that's easier than pushing ideas to convince voters they're the best person for the job.   It's a tactic that might be fine for early cheers in February but will run out of steam the longer this process goes. Usually, a tough primary makes a candidate stronger for the general election, but between the exposure of character flaws and this dumbing-down of rhetoric, itseems to be having the reverse effect on the GOP.    In November, a Pew poll showed then-front-runner Romney was leading Obama 53%-41% among independents. Now, Obama's up 51%-42%, and the president hasn't even started campaigning aggressively. Given some of the disconnected lunacy already heard during the primary, there's no telling what the candidates think they have to say to prove their tea party street cred and lock down the nomination.   I don't know about you, but I have lost my ability to be surprised by the things that come out of these candidates' mouths. I am fully prepared to hear Santorum refer to Obama as the anti-Christ, only to be one-upped the next day by someone calling Obama the super-duper, most evil anti-Christ ever -- fo' real.   It's juvenile. It's stupid. But apparently it's the way this field has chosen to play. Which is why in the eyes of many, they have already lost the game.   The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of LZ Granderson.
He drank three cups of water and frequently wiped his face.   The judges ordered van der Sloot expelled from Peru at the end of his sentence and ordered him to pay 200,000 Peruvian new soles, or about $74,500, in reparations to Flores' closest relatives.   Van der Sloot confessed to robbery in addition to murder, admitting that he stole Flores' belongings, including 850 soles (more than $300), credit cards, and the victim's van as a means to leave the country. He fled to Chile and was arrested a few days later.   It was an apparent attempt to win a more lenient sentence, using a plea called an "anticipated conclusion of the process" under Peruvian law. Five days earlier, the three judges delayed the start of van der Sloot's trial after he declined to give a plea after expressing reservations about the "aggravating factors" tied to admitting his guilt.   Van der Sloot's attorney, Jose Luis Jimenez, pressed earlier this week for a shorter sentence.   Jimenez claimed that his client was under special stress the day the 2010 murder occurred, which marked five years after Alabama teenager Natalee Holloway went missing in Aruba.   Van der Sloot -- who, with two others, was among the last people seen with Holloway - was detained twice, but never charged, in the high-profile international case.   "He was pointed at and persecuted. The world had been against him for five years before this case, for a murder he said he never committed and for which there is no evidence whatsoever," said Jimenez.   Investigators have said they believe van der Sloot killed Flores after she found something related to the Holloway case on his computer while visiting him in his hotel room. The two met while van der Sloot was in town for a poker tournament.   Judges on Friday recounted the crime in detail. They described how Flores hit van der Sloot in the face after reading the item on Holloway, leading him to hit her in the face with his elbow. Flores fainted and van der Sloot tried to strangle her, but she was still breathing and so he suffocated her with his shirt.   Van der Sloot then tried to clean the room by removing the sheets and changing his bloodied shirt, they said.   He was ultimately caught while traveling alone in a taxi near the Chilean central coastal city of Vina del Mar.  Holloway's body has never been found, and no one has been charged in relation to the case in Aruba. But van der Sloot does face possible extradition to the United States in a related matter.   In June 2010, a federal grand jury in Alabama indicted him on charges of wire fraud and extortion after allegations surfaced that he tried to extort $250,000 from Holloway's mother, Beth. Van der Sloot offered to provide what turned out to be bogus information about the whereabouts of Holloway's remains in exchange for the money, according to the indictment.   He was allegedly given a total of $25,000, and authorities believe he used that money to travel to Peru for the poker tournament.   Thursday, about six and a half years after Holloway went missing, Alabama Probate Judge Alan King signed an order declaring the teenager legally dead.
After "The Help" took home a surprise win at the SAG Awards, the race for Best Picture has narrowed to that film and "The Descendants" and "The Artist," both big winners at the Globes.   For the next few weeks, until the close of Academy voting on the Sunday before the Oscars, the studios and distributors behind those three pictures -- Disney, 20th Century Fox and The Weinstein Company, respectively -- will be aggressively wooing the Academy's 6,000 members into their camps.   As in a political campaign, you simply cannot win an Oscar without spending money. It doesn't matter who spends the most, but it does matter who spends it best.   One of the better campaigns of the past five years was the 2010 win for the little war flick that could: "The Hurt Locker." Despite its critical acclaim and high-quality cinematography and script, it was the lowest-grossing best picture winner of all time, competing against the highest-grossing movie in recent history, "Avatar."   Besides quality, of course, what did it have going for it? One hell of an Oscar campaign. Its studio, Summit Entertainment, was flush with vampire money from the "Twilight" series. Oscar watchers, including studio executives, film journalists and fellow Oscar campaigners,told me that Summit spent between $3 million and $5 million for the campaign, which consisted mainly of hiring consultants to spin "Hurt Locker" and "Avatar" in a battle of good versus evil within the press.   "Hurt Locker" actually lost out to "Avatar" in the Globes race, and that might have been a well-timed boon for the small flick. It positioned it perfectly as the underdog going into the home stretch of the campaign.   Besides the cachet of an Oscar win, the successful campaign typically pays for itself in dividends. In the nine months after "The Hurt Locker's" Oscar win, the film sold more than $31 million worth of DVDs in the United States, 214% of its U.S. box office gross of $14.7 million.   That's what makes Oscar campaigning more than a $100 million-a-year cottage industry within the movie industry.   Persuading members of the Academy to first nominate your film and then vote for it is tremendously similar to how political operatives get candidates elected.   There is no single strategy for a successful Oscar campaign, but momentum is key. Peak too early and excitement peters out; peak too late and you've spent millions of dollars without enough time to get voters invested.   Building momentum involves racking up accolades and awards from individual guilds and film festivals before the nomination voting in January. This year Weinstein is making sure "The Artist" gathers momentum at just the right time. It took home a Golden Globe and its lead actor, Jean Dujardin, brought home a Best Actor SAG. But it has yet to peak.   How is momentum built? And why does it cost millions? After all, word of mouth is free. But an intricate web of gypsy publicists, rogue party planners, and entire full-service consultancies to generate that all-important buzz that drives a campaign can run more than $2 million.   Sure, a DVD can be mailed for less than $2. But with elaborate packaging, express mailing and hand delivery, the cost can increase to $200 each. With 6,000 Academy members, that translates to more than $1 million to get the films in front of voters.   One of the stealthier tactics of good campaigners is the third-party Oscar party, where someone who is not in the Academy hosts an event celebrating a film starring one of their good friends. The expenses for these can easily run to $2 million, which is often somehow subsidized by the studio.   Like a good show-pony politician, the cast of a film needs to be tirelessly glad-handing voters and going to every event to fluff their film. If a movie's main players aren't willing to commit to living and breathing and fighting for their film for the two months leading up to the Oscars, they can forget about taking home a statue.   Bills can run into the millions to fly the talent back and forth across the country and keep them upright and happy during the final stretch. Then there are screening costs and advertising costs. Full-page ads in trade magazines like Variety and The Hollywood Reporter can cost $25,000 each, with ad budgets ranging from $15,000 to $1 million.   Political campaign tricks are obvious. Not so for Oscar campaigns. Selecting the leader of the free world may hold far greater stakes than what to put on your Netflix queue, but they both deserve a high level of transparency. Audiences deserve to know what goes into an Oscar win before they give it credence.   Follow CNN Opinion on Twitter  Join the conversation on Facebook  The opinions in this commentary are solely those of Jo Piazza.
"It's the appearance of arbitrariness about how the FCC is defining indecency in concrete situations," she added.   But with so many programming choices on broadcast, cable and satellite TV, "All the government is asking for is a few (broadcast) channels where you can say -- they are not going to hear the s-word, the f-word. They are not going to see nudity," Chief Justice John Roberts said.   The court's ruling, which will come in a few months, could establish important First Amendment guidelines over explicit content on the airwaves.   The Justice Department had filed an appeal, and helpfully provided the justices with a DVD of a 2003 episode of the now-canceled "NYPD Blue" on ABC in which a naked woman was shown. The content of that program is central to the ongoing legal dispute. Lawyer Seth Waxman representing ABC said the FCC's tough action against the network was "a shot out of the blue. "  A federal appeals court last year for a second time struck down the government policies, concluding they were vague and inconsistently applied. Pending fines against the broadcasters were dismissed. ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox are all parties in the case.   Controversial words and images have been aired in scripted and unscripted instances on all the major over-the-air networks in the past eight years, dating back to when the FCC began considering a stronger, no-tolerance policy.   The policy became known as the Golden Globes Rule, for singer Bono's 2003 acceptance speech at the live awards show on NBC, where he uttered the phrase "really, really, f---ing brilliant. "  The commission specifically cited celebrities Cher and Nicole Richie for potty-mouth language in the 2002 and 2003 Billboard Music Awards, which aired live on Fox. Richie, in an apparent scripted moment said, "Have you ever tried to get cow s--t out of a Prada purse? It's not so f---ing simple. "  Justice Stephen Breyer dryly noted the language from the two women "seems to be naturally part of their vocabulary." That drew laughter in the courtroom.   The CBS complaint involved dirty language on "The Early Show," a news and interview program.   The high court two years ago ruled in favor of the FCC on the issue of "fleeting expletives," concluding federal regulators have the authority to clamp down on broadcast TV networks airing isolated cases of profanity.   The court, however, refused at the time to decide whether the commission's policy violates the First Amendment guarantee of free speech, ruling only on the agency's enforcement power. The justices ordered the free-speech aspect to be reviewed again by a New York-based federal appeals court, which subsequently ruled in favor of the broadcasters.   The Justice Department, in its new appeal, lumped both the expletives and nudity cases together, saying the court should decide the free speech questions as one.   Explicit language is heard with greater, albeit varying, frequency on cable television, the Internet, and satellite radio, which do not use public airwaves. But the federal government is charged with responding to viewer complaints of "indecent" language and images on broadcast television and radio, which is subject to greater regulation.   That is especially relevant during daytime and early evening hours, when larger numbers of families and younger viewers may be watching.   The commission formally reversed its policy in March 2004 to declare even a single use of an expletive could be illegal. In addition, a voluntary rating system is used by all television networks to warn viewers when material that might be offensive will be aired.   Much of the oral argument Tuesday centered around the ABC television stations fined $27,500 each for airing the "NYPD Blue" episode featuring a woman with her breasts and buttocks exposed.   "The episode is called 'Nude Awakening.' It's about the sexual awakening of a child," Breyer said. "The whole thing was titillating," suggesting the FCC in this case could step in and declare it indecent.   But Justice Elena Kagan echoed the sentiments of the networks. "There is some amount of uncertainty, and ABC finds itself in that area of uncertainty," she said. "Because it turns out that nudity -- sometimes it's allowed as to some body parts and sometimes it's not allowed -- and the commission hadn't really said anything about it for 50 years," until the clampdown a decade ago.   The networks complain the FCC allowed profanity in such movies as "Saving Private Ryan," and full-frontal nudity in "Schindler's List" when they aired on broadcast TV, but fined stations for other allegedly "indecent" material.   "Context matters," said Chief Justice Roberts, skeptical about what he was hearing from the networks. "People understand that, including children. When they hear a bad word when someone hits their thumb with a hammer, they understand that's different than having an adult stand in normal conversations and use the words. And it seems to me that your position is saying that the government cannot regulate with an understanding of what takes place in the real world. "  Another source of contention is whether broadcast radio and the TV networks -- ABC, CBS, Fox, NBC, and the CW -- should receive treatment differing from their satellite and cable cousins, in a content way. Most broadcast stations are part of the basic cable packages people buy, and just 10% of the population receives its TV only through the airwaves. But the government countered that 69 million television sets are not connected to cable or satellite, and that broadcasting is the medium of choice for children.   "What do you call it, you surf through all the (cable) channels. And it's not apparent to many people which are broadcast and which are not," Justice Anthony Kennedy said to Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, who argued for the FCC. "But you're saying that there's still a value, an importance, in having a higher standard or different standard for broadcast media on the television. Why is that, when there are so many other options? "  Justice Antonin Scalia: "Sign me up as supporting Justice Kennedy's notion that this has a symbolic value, just as we require a certain modicum of dress for the people that attend this court. ... If these are public airwaves, the government is entitled to insist upon a certain modicum of decency. "  But Ginsburg interjected: "The expletives are in common parlance today. I think that the children are not going to be shocked by them the way they might have been a generation ago. "  Kagan suggested the broadcast regulatory model has been around since the 1920s. "It seems to work and it seems to be a good thing that there is some safe haven, even if the old technological bases for that safe haven don't exist anymore. "  Justice Samuel Alito went further, saying the whole broadcast debate may be moot in a few years. "Broadcast TV is living on borrowed time. It is not going to be long before it goes the way of vinyl records and eight-track tapes," he told the network lawyers. "I'm sure your clients will continue to make billions of dollars on their programs which are transmitted by cable and by satellite and by Internet. But to the extent they are making money from people who are using rabbit ears (antennas), that is disappearing. "  Verrilli warned that without the current regulations, viewers would see only more profanity and nudity. "The risk of the race to the bottom is real, and I think history is showing it. "  There were flashes of humor throughout. When Waxman noted viewer complaints after a recent Summer Olympics, showing a female statue -- "very much like some of the statues that are here in this courtroom, that had bare breasts and buttocks" -- several justices began looking about in search of the artwork.   "Right over here, Justice Scalia," said Waxman, pointing to a carved frieze atop the courtroom showing legal figures, including a bare-breasted symbol of justice. Everyone enjoyed that moment of levity.   The Supreme Court first ventured into the broadcast speech debate in 1978, when it ruled as indecent a monologue by comedian George Carlin on society's taboo surrounding "seven dirty words." The bit had received some radio airplay. The justices said "context" should be applied when deciding whether words or images are "indecent."   The major broadcast television networks say their scripted shows no longer air nudity, racy images or expletives, even after 10 p.m., when some potentially vulgar words are permitted.   Time Warner -- the parent company of CNN -- filed a supporting amicus brief in the high court dispute two years ago. The company is part owner of the CW broadcast network and operates several cable networks.   The case is Federal Communications Commission
Brown's attorney, Shannon Jones, says that her client signed the waiver but didn't quite understand it.   Soon after the girl was born, Brown -- a U.S. Army soldier -- headed off on a 1-year deployment. It was then that the baby moved on as well, to the Charleston, South Carolina, home of Matt and Melanie Capobianco.   It was an open adoption, family friend Jessica Munday said. That meant the girl's birth mother could and did maintain a relationship with the girl.   But Brown, the biological father, wasn't on board. Four months after Veronica's birth, he began legal proceedings seeking custody of her.   "My client has been fighting for custody of his daughter since shortly after her birth," Shannon Jones, Brown's Charleston-based lawyer, said by e-mail. "He loves this child with all his heart. "  Brown appeared to win that battle late last year. On New Year's Eve, he arrived in South Carolina, picked up Veronica from her adoptive parents, and headed west to his home in Oklahoma.   "It's awful," Matt Capobianco said days later to CNN affiliate WCIV. "Everyone keeps saying how bad they feel for us. But, I mean, she's a 2-year-old girl that got shoved in a truck and driven to Oklahoma -- with strangers. "  Key to Brown's case is a 1978 federal law called the Indian Child Welfare Act.   Its aim is to "promote the stability and security of Indian tribes and Indian families by the establishment of minimum federal standards to prevent the arbitrary removal of Indian children from their families and tribes and to ensure that measures which prevent the breakup of Indian families are followed in child custody proceedings. "  Brown is enrolled in the Cherokee Nation, a "federally-recognized government" of Indians that has "inherent sovereign status," based near Tahlequah, Oklahoma. That means young Veronica has Indian blood, as well.   Chrissi Ross Nimmo, assistant attorney general for the Cherokee Nation, says that the protections inherent in the Child Welfare Act are clear and important. Applied as she sees it, Brown -- as an Indian and the biological father of Veronica -- is entitled to custody of the girl.   "There's a placement preference. If children are removed by the state or if they're placed in private adoption, the first preference is for a family member," Nimmo told CNN affiliate KOTV.   Others disagree. CNN legal analyst Avery Freedman, for one, said the law was misused in this case.   "It's a wonderful law which seeks to protect the integrity of ... Native American families," she said. "But it cannot be used as a bludgeon to destroy existing families. "  Jones insists that Brown "would still be entitled to custody of his daughter under South Carolina law. "  "It is important to understand that the Indian Child Welfare Act was not used as a loophole in this action," the lawyer said.   Whatever the legal arguments, the emotions are still raw. The Capobiancos have spoken to Veronica once since she left, on New Year's Day.   "She said, 'Hi Mommy! Hi Daddy! She sounded really excited to hear us. And she said, 'I love you!' numerous times," Melanie Capobianco told WCIV.   She added that her husband felt like he'd failed as a father, sending her off with people she didn't know and not knowing what the little girl must think of them and the whole situation.   Melanie Capobianco said she is worried about what's next, and how Veronica is getting through each day and night.   "We just wish we could be there, if she was afraid," she said.
Unlike her aforementioned reality show judge counterparts, Spears joins the Fox singing competition still riding the success of her seventh studio album, and her worldwide "Femme Fatale Tour." Even the star's personal life appears to be more in order these days.   But the pop princess hasn't exactly been accessible to her fans since she was placed in a conservatorship in 2008. And as stars like Lady Gaga and Beyonce have figured out, there's more to being a singing sensation in 2012 than meets the ear.   Fans want to relate to their favorite artists on a personal level, said Andy Greene, an associate editor at Rolling Stone. Becoming a mainstay on a show like "The X Factor," and showing off her personality each week, could reignite the level of fame Spears experienced in the early 2000s, Greene added.   Referencing the way Lady Gaga uses Twitter to stay connected to her fans, which she often calls her "little monsters," Greene said, "(Gaga) is part of their daily life, while Britney is not. And her handlers are realizing they have to loosen the reins a bit. "  Even Beyonce has opened up to her fans since the birth of her daughter, Blue Ivy, joining Twitter and giving an intimate glimpse of her offstage life via her Tumblr page.   Though Spears has used social platforms to share pictures of her two sons and announce her engagement to former manager Jason Trawick, she's come off as a sort of "Stepford" pop star of late, Greene said. "She walks around like a robot. People can't relate to that," he said. "This could prove to be a whole new phase of her career. Britney 4.0. "  And lucky for Spears because, with a reported $15 million contract to appear on "X Factor," this move is likely less about the money than it is about rebuilding her image.   "Britney off the cuff doesn't exist," said Phil Gallo, Billboard's senior correspondent for film and TV. "It's really been a while since we've heard her give any kind of expansive commentary. "  To that end, there's a risk involved, because "the No. 1 dangerous thing that could happen," Gallo said, "is if the artist doesn't appear genuine. You have to feel like that's Britney saying what Britney wants to say. It can't feel scripted, like she has someone in her ear telling her what to say. "  While "The X Factor" played hardball in the ratings game last fall, fluctuating from 8.5 to 12.5 million viewers each week, the singing competition underwhelmed critics thanks to Simon Cowell's prediction that anything less than 20 million in viewers would be unacceptable.   However, with Spears at the judges' table, ratings probably won't be a concern, Gallo said. If the show starts pulling "Idol"-like numbers, he added, "it will be driven by, 'What did Britney say?' ' What is Britney going to say?' Out of the gate, that's what it is. "  Greene agrees people will tune in, if only to hear her talk.   "If you were a young person between '98 and '07, you find Britney fascinating," he said. "There's just no way around it ... between her craziness and absence. "  Of course, Greene added, Britney's team probably wouldn't let her on live TV if she couldn't handle it.   "There's a vote of confidence on Fox's part and Simon Cowell's part and Britney's team's part to say she's ready, and if it goes right, the potential is huge," he said. "The real Britney I used to see is bubbly and funny. It would be nice to see that again. "
"  "Expect it to move very slowly," said James Franklin of the National Hurricane Center. "The large size of the system and its slow motion will mean a long-lasting event with two to three days of impacts. "  At 8 p.m. ET Friday, forecasters said Sandy was about 400 miles south-southeast of Charleston, South Carolina, heading north at 7 mph. It was a Category 1 hurricane with winds of 75 mph. It's possible, the hurricane center says, that Sandy may weaken to a tropical storm. Nonetheless, experts said, it's not to be taken lightly.   Keep a hurricane preparation checklist  "Forget about the category with this," said CNN meteorologist Rob Marciano. "When you have trees with leaves on them still, this kind of wind and rain on top of that, you're talking about trees that are going to come down, power lines are going to be out and the coastal flooding situation is going to be huge."   Sandy's death toll in Haiti, Jamaica and Cuba this week was 21 people.   The U.S. target area is hard to predict at this point. Some landfall computer models show the storm striking somewhere between the border separating North Carolina and Virginia north to Connecticut, some of the most densely populated areas of the country. The District of Columbia, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia and New York have declared states of emergency, while Maine's governor signed a limited emergency declaration.   The National Hurricane Center reported tropical storm watches and warnings were in effect, covering parts of the Florida and Carolina coasts.   With a national election already under way in many early-voting states, Sandy's wrath could have a ripple effect on politics.   In Virginia Beach, a campaign rally scheduled for Sunday for GOP presidential hopeful Mitt Romney was canceled because of Sandy. There was no word yet on the status of other events scheduled later in the week. "We're keeping an eye on it," said a senior campaign adviser.   How Sandy was dubbed 'Frankenstorm'  Similarly, Vice President Joe Biden canceled his visit to Virginia Beach on Saturday, "out of an abundance of caution to ensure that all local law enforcement and emergency management resources can stay focused on ensuring the safety of people who might be impacted by the storm," according to the campaign of President Barack Obama.   Bad weather in Maryland or Washington, D.C., could make it harder for people to get out and cast their ballots. Early voting kicked off Monday in Washington and is scheduled to start Saturday in Maryland. But Friday, Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley warned that his state's early voting could be affected by the pending storm, leaving open the possibility that the vote could be rescheduled, or relocated.   U.S. residents in Sandy's path, forecasters said, should prepare for the possibility of several days without power.   "There is potential for widespread power outages, not just for a couple of days but for a couple of weeks or more, if the storm stays on track," said meteorologist Kathy Orr of CNN affiliate KYW-TV in Philadelphia. The computer weather predictions are murky, but by Friday afternoon, it seemed unlikely the storm would bring freezing rain or snow to the coast. Snow is possible in mountain areas, including the Appalachians.   Sandy could be a storm "of historic proportion," Orr warned, and the City of Brotherly Love could take a direct hit.   In New York, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is studying whether it should suspend all or some service ahead of the storm, according to Mayor Michael Bloomberg.   In Maryland, the Baltimore Gas and Electric Company expects that several hundred thousand customers could be affected, as early as Sunday.   "This could be like the 'Perfect Storm' 21 years ago," said CNN meteorologist Chad Myers.   A combination of three weather systems produced the famed "Perfect Storm" in the north Atlantic over Halloween 1991, when moisture flung north by Hurricane Grace combined with a high pressure system and a cold front, according to the weather service.   Hurricane safety: When the lights go out  The current weather conditions are not exactly the same as what produced the tempest. Although Grace contributed significantly to the storm, it did not progress to New England and did not make landfall, weather records show.   On Friday, residents in South Jersey were already stocking up on batteries and bottled water, and hardware stores have put up preparedness displays, KYW reported. One location quickly sold out of electric generators.   "This is the worst timing for a storm," Newark Mayor Cory Booker told CNN's Soledad O'Brien. "You have fall ending, a lot of loose branches.   "The storm itself will be bad, but I worry about the aftermath, people being caught without power. "  Along the Jersey shore, storm preparations included bulldozers shoring up piers with mounds of sand. Worried residents filled sandbags in case of flooding.   'Superstorm' meets barnstorm as weather and politics collide  "We will be piling up as much sand as possible along the beachfront," said Frank Ricciotti, Margate, New Jersey, public works director. "I think the water damage is worse than another type of damage, and the hardest thing is to stop water, once it starts coming up."  Farther south, in the Norfolk, Virginia, area, more than two dozen ships were being sent to sea for their own protection.   Strong winds whipped Florida, where CNN iReporter Simon Davis shot video of an overcast Melbourne Beach.   "I was surprised at just how intense it was for a storm so far off the coast. I was thinking, wow and this is going north? Scary," he wrote.   Miami International Airport on Friday canceled more than 20 flights to or from Jamaica or Bahamas, CNN affiliate WSVN reported. Nearby Fort Lauderdale airport canceled 13 flights to the islands.   Stay well-fed in any disaster  CNN's Ed Payne contributed to this report.
A source working with the DC Center for the LGBT Community told CNN that Corkins had worked as a volunteer at the center.   David Mariner, executive director of that center, released a statement Wednesday night saying he was "shocked to hear that someone who has volunteered with the DC Center could be the cause of such a tragic act of violence.   "No matter the circumstances, we condemn such violence in the strongest terms possible. We hope for a full and speedy recovery for the victim and our thoughts are with him and his family," Mariner said in the statement.   Warning signs of violence: What to do  A backpack and a vehicle believed to belong to the suspect were recovered, the law enforcement official told CNN.   The suspect's weapon was a legally obtained 9mm handgun, according to another law enforcement official. The suspect had obtained the weapon "fairly recently" from a gun shop in Virginia.   The council is a Christian group that has pushed family and anti-abortion issues and religious liberties. It has been a leading opponent of same-sex marriage.   The Family Research Council recently backed restaurant chain Chick-fil-A after the company's president, Dan Cathy, said the company supports traditional marriage.   Investigators said that it was too early to say whether the organization was targeted for its political views, but made clear that would be part of the investigation.   "We don't know enough yet about him or his circumstances to be able to determine his connection to this group or to the business or to what, you know, mentally what he's doing or thinking. So we're going to try to sort it all out, and pull the evidence together, do as many interviews as we can, and get it all together," said FBI Assistant Director James McJunkin.   3 killed in shootings near Texas A&M University  DC Police Chief Cathy Lanier said the man entered the building in downtown Washington and was "confronted by a security guard. "  The suspect opened fire, striking the guard.   "The security officer here is a hero as far as I'm concerned. He did his job. The person never made it past, farther then the front door," Lanier said.   Steve Biondi, a tourist from New York, said he witnessed the first two police officers arrive at the scene. They ordered the suspect to put the gun down. The man got on the ground, and did not appear to put up a fight, according to Biondi.   By the numbers: Guns in America  He described the suspect as about 6 feet tall and weighing about 240 pounds.   The FBI's Jacqueline Maguire said the case is being worked jointly by the FBI and the Metropolitan Police Department "to determine motive/intent and whether a hate crime/terrorism nexus exists. "  Family Research Council President Tony Perkins said "our first concern is with our colleague who was shot today. Our concern is for him and his family. "  Launched in 1983, the Family Research Council says it promotes "faith, family and freedom in public policy and public opinion. "  Presumptive Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney said he was appalled by the incident.   "There is no place for such violence in our society," he said in a statement. "My prayers go out to the wounded security guard and his family, as well as all the people at the Family Research Council whose sense of security has been shattered by today's horrific events. "  The National Organization for Marriage, which has actively campaigned against same-sex marriage efforts, also condemned what it termed an attack on the Family Research Council.   After shootings, opinions on gun control haven't changed  Opinion: Politicians hammered by the NRA  5 things gun owners want you to know  CNN's Greg Seaby, Javi Morgado, Paul Courson, Sandra Endo, Mike M. Ahlers and Dan Gilgoff contributed to this report.
For Bruce, giving brief history lessons to out-of-towners came easy, since growing up in the area gave him the chance to witness history firsthand.   "I was at the Lincoln Memorial with my family to hear firsthand Martin Luther King Jr. deliver his 'I Have a Dream' speech," Bruce said over the loudspeaker as the bus drove past the newly dedicated memorial to the civil rights leader.   Bruce became a tour guide for the company in the summer of 1972 -- when Tourmobile was in its third year of business-- but he left after four years to try his luck on Broadway. After a 33-year absence, he returned in 2006.   Much remains the same, he said. "Everyone in the world is still eager to see the sights that they have only seen up to now in paintings, books and magazines. "  According to the company's website, Tourmobile, which started operations in 1969. employs 300 seasonal workers and serves "upwards of 2 million riders annually." The tour buses take visitors to many of the capital's most famous sites, including the Lincoln Memorial, the Washington Monument and the National Mall.   What's next for the company is unclear. "We are currently unable to provide any information regarding future tour services," a message on the company's website said.   Bruce blamed the company's demise on the sagging economy and more competition in the area offering similar services.   Starting Tuesday, wlth Tourmobile no longer running, there will be no bus tours for visitors at Arlington National Cemetery until a new contract is awarded through bidding that will be overseen by the National Park Service.   The cemetery covers 624 acres and has 4 million visitors a year, many of whom may find walking the sprawling hallowed grounds too difficult.   The park service hopes to have a new tour bus company in place before the end of the year.   "This is a bittersweet time for the (National Park Service) and Tourmobile, as they have faithfully served the needs of millions of visitors for over 42 years," said Steve Whitesell, regional director of the park service's National Capital Region. "Times change, and we are ready to enter a new era for visitors to access our national parks in greater Washington. "  Tourist Gretchen Neu, from Racine, Wisconsin, was visiting Washington for the first time and could not imagine touring the cemetery on foot.   "Absolutely not. I mean, you have to have some mode of transportation other than your own car," Neu said, sitting on the Tourmobile bus as it left the cemetery. Families with loved ones buried at Arlington National Cemetery and those with disabilities will still be able to drive their own cars on the property.   Another thing that set Tourmobile apart from other tour operators was the type of buses it used -- more like trams that are common at theme parks.   The red, white and blue Tourmobile trams that many Washingtonians have become used to seeing came from Universal Studios in California. "They are truly relics of a whole other era," Bruce said just before making his final trip of the day. "It seemed that that operation worked so well in California that they wanted to try it out here, and that's how it was born. "  What was born over 40 years ago is coming to an end, but Bruce said he's not ready for retirement and wants to keep showing off the place where he grew up.   "I greet the world every day, and it's a privilege for me to show the world my hometown," he said.
"It's a cat signal because we see the cat as the symbol of the Internet," said Tiffiniy Cheng, co-director of the nonprofit Fight for the Future, which helped organize recent piracy legislation protests and is behind the new site. "There's this academic theory ... that talks about if you ban the ability of people to share cat photos, they'll start protesting en masse. "  She added: "The idea is we're building the infrastructure to put up this cat signal or this bat signal all over the Internet at a moment's notice, with the click of a button. "  The Internet went haywire in January when Congress was considering two pieces of legislation -- nicknamed SOPA and PIPA -- that aimed to help the government crack down on the online distribution of pirated content.   The English-language version of Wikipedia shut down for 24 hours in protest of the proposed legislation, which died after the digitally based protests.   Time Warner, the parent company of CNN, supported the legislation, along with several movie and music industry groups.   The Internet Defense League says it is targeting two upcoming pieces of legislation, ACTA and CISPA, which take different approaches to regulating pirated content.   The group also will seek promises from U.S. presidential candidates on the subject of Internet openness and legislation, according to Cheng.   "For the past 10 years at least, tech policy has not been based on what's good for the public interest," she said.   The group says it has the support of some big names on the Web, including WordPress, craigslist founder Craig Newmark, Reddit, the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Cheezburger Network, which owns several humor blogs.   Cheng declined to comment on whether larger commercial websites like Google and Facebook would consider supporting the effort.   Pundits have wondered whether this is the dawn of a new era for Internet activism, especially from tech and Web companies that, in the past, have been less political.   "This is the first real test of the political strength of the Web, and regardless of how things go, they are no longer a pushover," Tim Wu, from Columbia Law School, told the New York Times during the Web protests in January. "The Web taking a stand against one of the most powerful lobbyers and seeming to get somewhere is definitely a first."   The Internet Defense League aims to expand on that energy, alerting supporters to new threats to "Internet freedom" when they arise.   A co-founder of the group, Reddit's Alexis Ohanian, explained the idea to Forbes this way:  "You can only cry 'Oh my gosh, they're going to shut down the Internet' so often. We've scared (Congress) from doing anything as egregious as SOPA and PIPA again. But the new challenge is this endless series of smaller bills that try to unravel Internet rights. "  On its site, the group pitches its battle against anti-Internet legislation as a sort of duel between all-knowing geeks and uneducated or "confused" public officials:  "Internet freedom and individual power are changing the course of history. But entrenched institutions and monopolies want this to stop. Elected leaders often don't understand the Internet, so they're easily confused or corrupted. "  It adds: "With the combined reach of our websites and social networks, we can be massively more effective than any one organization. "  The Internet Defense League site lets people donate money to the cause and, perhaps more powerfully, rally people for or against certain pieces of legislation.   When there's an Internet "emergency," the group says it will send out snippets of code that will help websites participate in the protests. Cheng said participating companies or bloggers can choose to have messages displayed on their sites automatically or to field the messages on a case-by-case basis.   By creating the code for Web developers to use, Cheng said it become much faster to mobilize people online. That's what made the anti-SOPA Web blackouts so effective, she said.   "The tool was easy to use. It was a low bar to being used," she said. "That was a turning point because the form of protest was very stark and clear and was an example of what Internet censorship could look like.   " And these tools allowed us to reach millions of people very quickly. "
They were making plans to schedule a meeting with affected residents.   "It really is a loss, and there is a grieving process that has to take place," said Steve Cox with the Colorado Springs mayor's executive team.   The FBI's Denver office, meanwhile, said it was working with other agencies to determine whether any of a dozen wildfires across the state resulted from criminal activity.   Nearly 1,000 firefighters tried to corral the 15,517-acre blaze that moved into Colorado Springs.   Gov. John Hickenlooper told CNN's "John King USA" that the number of evacuations grew Wednesday to 36,000.   "We're still fighting with everything we've got," he said.   Harvey said progress had been made in some portions of the Waldo Canyon Fire, and firefighters were taking an aggressive stance against hot spots.   "It's been house to house, door to door, street to street, hill to hill activity," he said of one location.   Higher humidity and cloud cover Wednesday night might aid firefighting efforts, but there was no guarantee conditions would not be similar to Tuesday's conflagration, Harvey told reporters.   Some rain did fall Wednesday on a separate fire burning near Boulder, Colorado, according to the National Weather Service.   President Barack Obama will travel to the Colorado Springs area Friday to survey the damage and thank responders battling the blaze, the White House said.   The Waldo Canyon Fire captured attention because of its proximity to landmarks such as Pikes Peak and the Air Force Academy, and also to Colorado Springs, a city of about 400,000, the state's second largest.   "We have rehearsed and practiced disasters," said Dave Rose, public information officer for El Paso County, which includes Colorado Springs. "We have never seen one like this before. "  Winds gusting to 65 mph through mountain canyons blew the wildfire through containment lines into northwest Colorado Springs on Tuesday afternoon. It roared downhill, burning to the ground the Flying W Ranch, a popular Western-style tourist destination.   CNN meteorologist Dave Hennen likened conditions to a double-edged sword. While temperatures were down a bit Wednesday, high-based thunderstorms will be fed by rising air, wind and low humidity, he said.   Such storms produce lightning and rain, but dry air will suck up most of the precipitation before it hits the ground. Lightning can reach the parched soil and possibly ignite additional fires, according to Hennen.   Open Story: iReporters share their harrowing views of the western wildfires  Richard Brown, the Colorado Springs fire chief, on Tuesday described the Waldo Canyon Fire as a "firestorm of epic proportions. "  Stan and Darlene Colbert were among the last families in the evacuation zone to pull out. They waited, hoping the fire would subside, but after watching the flames from their back porch, they knew it was time to go.   The first things the couple -- married 43 years -- packed were the family photos.   "Every one of them I could find. Every photo because I can't replace those," said Darlene Colbert.   Many residents waited anxiously to get word of whether their homes had been spared. Becky Schormann was one.   Her family managed to take some sentimental items with them when they left, but still had to leave behind a boat, a pair of ATVs, a china cabinet and an antique doll collection.   "I keep telling myself: It's going to be OK," she said.   Schormann told CNN that flames came to within 20 feet of their home but were beaten back.   "Our volunteer fire department is just awesome," she said.   The Schormanns are staying in an RV at their daughter's home. The family's two dogs, a pony and a donkey also came along for the ride.   The flames came dangerously close to the Air Force Academy's main campus, and an evacuation order was issued for about 700 residents in its Pine Valley Housing and 1,400 in Douglass Valley Housing, said public affairs officer John Van Winkle.   The facility was closed to visitors Wednesday, with only essential personnel asked to report.   Reactions: Monster fire terrorizes a Colorado city  The academy's powered flight, glider and parachuting operations have been called off since Saturday so that the U.S. Forest Service could use runways for helicopters used to fight fires along Colorado's Front Range, Van Winkle said.   The academy's Class of 2016 -- all 1,045 cadets -- is still scheduled to arrive Thursday, but officials are making contingency plans in case they have to report to a different location on the base.   Rose, the county information officer, said one in four callers to the joint information center are offering food for firefighters, shelter for displaced neighbors or to volunteer in some capacity.   "It is a somber resolve," Rose told CNN. "There's no doubt that we have a grim reality that we have lost a number of structures. Our western border mountain vista has dramatically altered. "  Colorado wildfires had consumed 181,426 acres by Wednesday afternoon, according to the Colorado Division of Emergency Management.   The largest of the fires was the High Park Fire, which began June 9 and has now consumed 87,284 acres, the U.S. Forest Service said. It was 65% contained Wednesday. The total number of homes burned stood at 257. An estimated $33.1 million has been spent trying to contain the blaze.   The brotherhood of Disaster City  CNN's Jim Spellman contributed to this report.
Nor was today's announcement a full-fledged reveal like Apple's iOS 6 presentation at WWDC. Microsoft says it will unveil more end-user features in the summer. But in the meantime, these platform updates are significant, and Microsoft had a lot to say about them.   Here's a deeper dive into what we can expect from Windows Phone 8.   Hardware updates  As suspected, Windows Phone 8 will support multi-core chips. It's a move that will make Windows Phone more competitive with the iPhone and Android handsets, which have been able to check off multi-core support on their spec sheets for quite a while. When they launch, Windows Phone 8 devices will run on dual-core processors, specifically those from Qualcomm.   "The experience that people have had on a single-core will get much, much better as we move to dual-core," Joe Belfiore, manager of the Windows Phone Program, said at the event.   Windows Phone 8 will also support three screen resolutions. (Windows Phone 7.5 supports just one.) The new screen resolutions include WVGA at 800480 pixels and a 15:9 aspect ratio; WXGA at 1280769 and 15:9; and 720p at 1280720 at 16:9.   Rounding out the hardware story, Windows Phone 8 will support microSD card expansion. Hardware manufacturers can include a microSD slot for users to easily transfer information from device to device. "What this enables is that an end user can add a MicroSD card months after they've bought a phone and transfer information from PC to phone, and phone to phone," Belfiore said. "We didn't want to deliver this feature until we could do it where it's easy to use. "  Revamped Internet Explorer 10  Microsoft showed off a new Internet Explorer browser for Windows Phone 8. The new IE 10 features Smart Screen, an anti-phishing filter that uses data from Windows PCs to block malicious websites in real time. Belfiore showed off how IE 10 can protect users who might fall victim to scam links sent via email.   IE 10 also receives a JavaScript update  JavaScript is now four times faster than the browser in Windows PHone 7.5, according to the company. There's also twice as much HTML5 support.   How does mobile IE 10 compare to other mobile browsers? According to recent SunSpider scores that measures a browser's JavaScript execution performance, IE 10 performed the best.   Shared Native Code  Windows Phone 8 will share native C and C++ code with Windows 8, making it easier for developers to create apps for both platforms. It's not something that consumers will immediately notice when they use the OS, but Microsoft hopes shared native code will lead to better, faster app development  and thus more quality apps in Windows Phone Marketplace.   "The biggest effect this will have is we're going to see some freaking killer games this year," Belfiore said.   At its developer summit, Microsoft continually hammered on how easy it will be for developers to port games from Windows 8 to Windows Phone 8, and vice versa. "Suddenly, with Windows Phone 8 with that shared core, taking an app from the PC to phone is very straightforward," Belfiore said.   In essence, native code will enable developers to write high-performance code  which is why games are such a big deal  and drive hardware acceleration. "You're going to see some beefy, powerful phones running some amazing games this year," Belfiore said.   NFC Sharing  As suspected, Windows Phone 8 devices will support NFC sharing. NFC isn't a totally new technology, but it's far from ubiquitous, so it's interesting to see Microsoft pushing it forward. Belfiore demoed how NFC would work in a Lexus advertisement with an embedded tag  he used the April issue of Wired magazine, actually: With a simple tap of his phone on top of the advertisement, he transferred product information directly to his Windows Phone.   Also, sharing isn't limited to just phones. The new Microsoft platform supports NFC between phones, laptops, slates, and PCs. And NFC also has an important role in the next platform update....  Wallet Experience  Windows Phone 8 will feature a new Wallet hub where users can store their credit and debit card information, third-party loyalty and membership cards, and coupons and deals. It's not unlike Apple's iOS 6 Passbook app. But Windows Phone Wallet experience will also support NFC tap-to-pay.   Yes, it's like Google Wallet, but with one fundamental difference. All of your credit and debit card information will be stored in a secure SIM card, not in an on-device system. Google Wallet is built directly into a device, making it impossible to move your Wallet info from one device to the next, but Windows Phone has opted for a more transition-friendly option.   Microsoft's approach is also an experience that carriers prefer. But don't get too excited just yet, as the NFC tap-to-pay capabilities won't be coming to the United States until next year. At launch, the capability will be limited to the France-based Orange carrier. US Windows 8 consumers, however, will still be able to access the Wallet hub as their central location for cards, third-party services, and deals.   Goodbye Bing Maps, Hello Nokia Maps  Say goodbye to Bing Maps. Windows Phone 8 maps will run on Nokia's mapping technology, built directly into the onboard Maps app. There's not too much news on this front, but this development isn't surprising considering Microsoft and Nokia's close ties. Some key features include: Global NAVTEQ map data, offline map support, turn-by-turn directions, and map control for developers. 3-D navigation didn't make it.   Windows Phone 8 for Business  Microsoft has always had a strong hold on the enterprise market with Windows, and now it's taking all of that work and pulling it together with a business-friendly Windows Phone platform. Windows Phone 8 will come with a complete security platform with Secure Boot and encryption (which is a derivative of Windows Bitlocker). It'll make app distribution and deployment flexible for business, offering up a mechanism for private distribution and full-on onsite management.   Businesses will also be able to manage Windows Phone 8 devices through a software management system. And finally, Windows Phone 8 will run the Microsoft Office suite  though we have yet to see how it will look in that mobile form.   New Start Screen  Ah, the new Start Screen. "It's the sexiest thing in Windows Phone 8," Belfiore said. And this should definitely the case for more visually motivated users. As we wrote in our story about the Start Screen and current Windows Phone devices, the new Start Screen is the most visible end-user feature of Windows Phone 8 (at least that's been announced so far).   Microsoft has taken its Live Tiles and made them more customizable, bringing a new small size to the experience.   "These live tiles are the heart and soul of the Windows Phone," Belfiore said. "We know that our users really love their phones, and we think the biggest reason is because Live Tiles make the phones so special and so personal. "  Users will be able to choose between a small, medium and large size for their Live Tiles. And now the entire screen is available for Live Tile pinning  the arrow and empty space on the right-hand side have dissapeared. To that end, users can pin more on their Start Screen.   And of course, Windows Phone 8 and Windows 8 are coming even closer together. As Microsoft said, they're "better together. "  "The intent in our changing the Live Tiles support is not just to make Live Tiles more personal, but to give a more consistent experience between Windows 8 Live Tiles and Windows Phone 8 live tiles," Belfiore said.   Subscribe to WIRED magazine for less than $1 an issue and get a FREE GIFT! Click here!   Copyright 2011 Wired.com.
And that's a spirit that doesn't always jibe with the image of  CEO of a corporation expected to be valued at up to $100 billion when it makes its first public stock offering in the next few weeks.   "On balance, I'm not sure it's the best way to do business," said Ali Velshi, CNN's chief business correspondent. "But Mark Zuckerberg has defied all rules. "  The moxie suggested in the report comes at an interesting time for Facebook and Zuckerberg, who also reportedly whittled down Systrom's initial asking price of $2 billion.   On the brink of offering up Facebook, with its hundreds of millions of users, to stockholders, even Zuckerberg's controlling interest in the company (a 57% share of voting rights, according to reports) could soon need to be checked by the types of lawyers, bean-counters and other business types whose jobs involve looking out for a company's bottom line.   "This paints a complex picture of its CEO as at once confident and bold, and also nervous and panicky -- details that will be scrutinized come Facebook's imminent IPO," Kit Eaton wrote on Fast Company's website.   Velshi, who over the course of his career covered the "tech bubble" of the late 1990s, said the whirlwind purchase may, in fact, be a last hurrah of sorts for Zuckerberg.   "It actually happens more than we think. And it's not a bad thing, particularly in non-public companies, Velshi said. "But, in public companies, boards are important -- they are supposed to protect shareholder interests, and they are supposed to bring perspective and experience that a kid CEO may not have."  The Facebook board did vote to approve the deal, according to the Journal. But at that point, it was largely an endorsement more than a decision. The board, one source said, "was told, not consulted. "  In the fast-moving world of Web tech, being nimble is almost a prerequisite for survival. Fail to adapt and someone else will pass you by.   Instagram, a mobile app which lets users enhance their photos with a raft of pre-created filters, was reportedly on the verge of nailing down a new round of private investments worth $50 million. Could that have made Zuckerberg overpay for a company with 13 employees and no revenue to date?   Maybe, says Velshi.   "Creativity, innovation and deal-making are different strengths; rarely does one person possess all of them," he said. "That Zuckerberg felt strongly that he wanted Instragram may not have made him the best person to do the deal -- that's why we have real estate agents, or talent agents. "  For what it's worth, Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg was aware of the negotiations all along, although she didn't personally take part. And, for Facebook, making a profit directly from Instagram may have been less important than locking up its user data and taking a rapidly growing competitor, now with more than 40 million users, off of the playing field.   Regardless of where the future takes Facebook -- whether life as a publicly traded commodity is more about stuffy board meetings than spur-of-the moment handshake deals -- Wednesday's report provided at least one more glimpse at the hoodie-wearing, authority-flouting CEO whose origin story has literally become the stuff of Hollywood storytelling.   "What's cooler than a billion dollars?" Matthew Braga of Ars Technica wrote, invoking the oft-paraphrased line from Facebook biopic "The Social Network. "  "A billion dollars without board approval. "
He then gave a partial recap, using PowerPoint slides, of how the two intelligence programs work. Alexander said the NSA can collect metadata on phone calls in the United States, including the date and time of the call, the numbers involved and the length of the conversations. He made a special point of saying the NSA does not have access to the content of citizens' calls or text messages.   Top senator questions need to collect phone records  Alexander said the NSA's PRISM surveillance program, which probes digital activity such as e-mail, instant messaging and Web searches, focuses on foreign actors and does not apply to people in the United States. He said the phone and Internet data is necessary to "connect the dots" and identify potential terrorists before they act.   Alexander attempted to reassure the audience that NSA officials are not abusing access to the databases to intrude on Americans' privacy.   "The assumption is that people are out there just wheeling and dealing (users' information), and nothing could be further from the truth," he said. "We have tremendous oversight and compliance in these programs. "  Congress and courts make sure the programs operate within the bounds of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, and internal auditing systems are in place to prevent any abuse by employees, Alexander said. He added that only 35 analysts are authorized to run queries on the phone metadata.   Alexander made no mention of a report in Wednesday's Guardian newspaper about the existence of another secret NSA program, called XKeyscore. According to documents provided to the Guardian by Snowden, XKeyscore allows analysts to search with no prior authorization through vast databases containing e-mails, online chats and the browsing histories of millions of people.   CNNMoney: NSA chief to hackers: If you don't like what we do, change it  Alexander denied accusations that the NSA programs allow the government to collect all online data on everyone.   "We can't afford to and don't want to collect everything," he said.   "I have four daughters. Can I go and intercept their e-mails? The answer is no," said the security chief before looking out at the auditorium thick with hackers and joking, "You may be able to. "  Aside from a couple jokes, Alexander's words were serious and measured, and he seemed unfazed by a smattering of heckling from the audience during his hourlong talk.   Ex-NSA chief: Safeguards exist to protect Americans' privacy  "You lied to Congress. Why would we believe you're not lying to us right now?" yelled one person.   Alexander replied that people were basing opinions on what was "written in the press" without looking at facts and urged the heckler read his congressional testimony.   During a Q&A session consisting of prescreened questions, Alexander said that one reason terrorists target the United States is a desire by people in the Middle East to run governments under Islamic law. But another attendee disagreed, shouting, "They want to attack us because we're bombing them. "  Another yell of "bulls---!" inspired the general to cap his explanation of the programs by saying "And that's no bulls---, those are facts. "  Overall, the reception to Alexander's talk seemed mostly positive. Black Hat attendees are primarily corporate-security types, interested in protecting their networks and warding off cyber attacks. The looser, hacker-centric Def Con conference, which starts here Thursday, could likely give him a more hostile reception.   Alexander solicited advice on how to better balance security with civil liberties and put up an e-mail address so the room of tech experts could share their ideas with the NSA.   He also hinted at possible damage resulting from the Snowden leaks, and wondered aloud whether the government will have the same success preventing terrorist attacks in the next 10 years as it has in the past decade.   "If we tell everyone exactly what we're doing, then the adversaries will know exactly how to get through our defenses," he said.   Opinion: NSA secrets kill our trust
5 things to know about Pope Francis  "He told me. ... 'I'm in favor of gay rights and in any case, I also favor civil unions for homosexuals, but I believe that Argentina is not yet ready for a gay marriage law,'" said Marquez, a gay rights activist, a self-described devout Catholic and a former theology professor at a Catholic seminary.   The pope's reported willingness behind-the-scenes to accept civil unions as a compromise may offer new insight into how he will lead the world's 1.2 billion Catholics.   A public battle   As archbishop of Buenos Aires, Bergoglio was one of the leaders of the Catholic Church's public charge against legalizing same-sex marriage in Argentina. He engaged in a notorious war of words with the government of President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who supported the measure.   Bergoglio put himself in the middle of the fight, calling the proposed legislation "a destructive attack on God's plan. "  With a front-page counterpunch, the president said the church possessed "attitudes reminiscent of medieval times and the Inquisition. "  Some point to the public battle as evidence of Bergoglio's traditionalist views.   But behind closed doors, Marquez said, the man who would become pope appeared to be more open to discussion of the issue.   In another meeting, Bergoglio told him he had always treated gay people with respect and dignity.   World reacts to new pope  "I have accompanied many homosexual people during my career to tend to their spiritual needs," Bergoglio said at the time, according to Marquez.   Pope was 'very open, very frank'  Bergoglio, who chose the name Pope Francis after he was elected pontiff last week, may have voiced his support for civil unions in other circles.   Andres Albertsen, a former pastor of the Danish Church in Buenos Aires, said Bergoglio made similar comments about civil unions to him in a private meeting.   "In this conversation that we had, he showed himself to be very open, very frank with me," Albertsen told CNN en Espaol on Wednesday. "He told me that he would have accepted a civil union. "  According to a story published by The New York Times on Wednesday, Bergoglio also told bishops at a 2010 meeting that the church should support civil unions for gay couples.   CNN could not independently confirm the details of the Argentine bishops' meeting, which was also described in a July 2010 article published by Argentina's Clarin newspaper.   "Bergoglio -- faithful to his moderate position -- proposed continuing measured actions. ... He would suggest, also, that the church discreetly accept the intermediate alternative of the civil union -- authorizing a series of rights (inheritance, social work) -- that would not equate to marriage nor permit adoption," wrote journalist Sergio Rubin -- now Bergoglio's biographer.   But that proposal was rejected by bishops, who voted instead to begin a high-profile, public battle against same-sex marriage, Rubin wrote.   Pushing for dialogue  A senior Vatican official said he could neither confirm nor deny The New York Times report at this point, adding that while Pope Francis might have expressed such a view while he was a cardinal, he should be given time to develop his policy position as pontiff.   Alejandro Russo, the rector of the Metropolitan Cathedral in Buenos Aires, said it was unlikely the pope had ever expressed such a view, even in private.   In 2007, Bergoglio publicly criticized Buenos Aires' government for allowing civil unions, Russo said. His relationship with the mayor of Buenos Aires soured over the matter.   Gay rights advocates in Argentina later argued that civil unions, allowed in a several states, were a positive step that conferred some benefits to same-sex couples, but didn't go far enough. The same-sex marriage measure, they said, would treat homosexual and heterosexual relationships equally before the law. It would permit gay couples to adopt, and also allow the inheritance of property.   Argentina approved a law legalizing same-sex marriage nationwide in July 2010.   Even though Bergoglio was one of the law's most well known opponents, Marquez said on Wednesday that he hopes the pontiff will remain open to discussion, just as he appeared to be several years ago in Buenos Aires.   "We are going to try to have a dialogue with the pope," said Marquez, who works for Argentina's National Institute Against Discrimination. "It's frightening, but I think it must be done. "  'He's really moderate on this issue'  Word of the pope's reported support for civil unions in Argentina sparked debate, with some praising his stance and saying it was a hopeful sign of possible reforms.   "He wanted to respect human rights. That's the real surprise here, that people say, well he's anti-gay. You can be anti-gay marriage and not be anti-gay, and I think there's a distinction here," said the Rev. Edward Beck, a CNN contributor and host of "The Sunday Mass" on ABC Family. "He's really moderate on this issue, it seems. "  Others, though, were more skeptical.   One Argentine journalist said Wednesday that he wasn't quite ready to celebrate.   In an article titled, "Francis, the pope that declares war on us and later calls us on the phone," journalist Bruno Bimbi said it wasn't clear how the pope will handle the issue of same-sex unions.   "Maybe the lion has become a lamb. Maybe, as a priest told me the day his election was announced, maybe he is worried about his biography and wants to go down in history. I do not know," Bimbi wrote. "Whatever he does, this time he won't be able to blame others for the pressures. Now he's in charge. "  Catholics: 5 ways for Francis to move forward
The threat surfaced in recent weeks with fliers offering a reward for information on the identity of the administrator or his family.   "I think what is happening to me is the least relevant thing that is happening in my state," the blogger said. "There are hundreds of families waiting for their missing ones, who at their moment of filing complaints were filled with fear by authorities who told them to assume they are dead. "  Tamaulipas has one of the highest levels of violence in Mexico. It is among the states with the highest levels of homicide, extortion and kidnapping, according to official statistics.   "The criminals truly think that they are in the right and that everyone else should obey them," the blogger said. "They think that crime is a job and causing damage is a right."  Criminals lower their profile  The violence in Tamaulipas persists, despite the reduction in the intensity of shootouts between groups, the administrator said.   "(Organized crime) has only lowered its profile. It carries out its activities like always, kidnapping, executing, disappearing people, terrorizing," he said. "What has declined in the past years are the illegal roadblocks and the very large shootouts, but the criminal control remains the same, or stronger. "  The administration of former President Felipe Calderon, who left office in 2012, attributed the violence in Tamaulipas to a turf war between the Gulf cartel and the Zetas cartel over control of drug smuggling routes to the United States.   To combat them, in 2010 he launched an operation that sent additional security forces to Tamaulipas and the neighboring Nuevo Leon state.   The threat  The offers of reward money in exchange for information about Courage for Tamaulipas first surfaced between February 8 and 10. During those days, anonymous fliers began to circulate in Ciudad Victoria -- the capital -- and the border cities of Reynosa, Matamoros and Nuevo Laredo.   The administrator published a photo of one of the fliers and affirmed that he would not be stopped because the public values his work.   "As long as I have collaborators, even if it is only one person, I will continue doing what is in my reach to provide evidence of the situation we are living," he said.   The government's response  It was not until this week that the blogger received support from local and federal authorities, though some officials had expressed their support for him individually.   The state general attorney's office said it does not have any information about the fliers threatening Courage for Tamaulipas.   The agency added that it does not have a protocol for protecting residents in situations like this because it is the first of its kind.   The precedents  A survey by Freedom House of Mexican journalists and bloggers showed that 96% of respondents know a colleague who has been attacked. The organization surveyed 102 journalists in 20 Mexican states.   Freedom House published a report, Digital and Mobile Security for Mexican Journalists and Bloggers, which cites a September 2011 incident where two people were found hanging from a bridge in Nuevo Laredo.   "A message left near the bodies warned that the same thing could happen to any internet user who crossed that criminal organization. Those murders were followed by the killing of a journalist using the nickname "la Nena de Laredo" who had posted entries against criminal activity on Nuevo Laredo en Vivo, a social media forum," the report said.   Following these crimes, the administrator of Courage for Tamaulipas published a message condemning the incidents and affirming that "innumerable" citizens continue to resist against organized crime's grip.
Media outlets, including CNN, have been allowed to record and air occasional high-profile appeals in the 9th Circuit and the New York-based 2nd Circuit in recent years. Most other federal courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court, have banned photographs and video.   "The 9th Circuit has a long history of using advances in technology to make the court more accessible and transparent," said Chief Judge Alex Kozinski. "Video streaming is a way to open the court's doors even wider so that more people can see and hear what transpires in the courtroom, particularly in regard to some of our most important cases. "  Under the new rules, all "en banc" oral arguments -- involving 11 judges sitting together in a courtroom at the 9th Circuit -- will be covered live through the court's website. Most such federal appeals are first heard by three-judge panels, and those hearings will not automatically be streamed live.   The losing party at the three-judge stage can ask the court for wider en banc review, and typically involve matters of "exceptional importance." The court estimates about 20 en banc cases each year will be streamed live.   Previous 9th Circuit cases that were televised by the media involved California's same-sex marriage ban, electronic surveillance by the government, affirmative action and international terrorism.   The largest and busiest appeals court  All of circuit's 11 courtrooms are equipped with video cameras, and broadcast and cable news outlets have been allowed to access the feeds. About 378 media requests for photographic and video coverage have been granted in the past two decades, said officials.   Among the 13 federal judicial circuits nationwide, the 9th is the largest and busiest, comprising of cases originating in Alaska, Washington, Oregon, California, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Arizona and Hawaii, along with Guam and the Northern Marianas Islands.   Most appeals are heard at the James R. Browning Courthouse in San Francisco. Panels also convene occasionally in Pasadena, California; Portland, Oregon; and Seattle.   Many at the 9th Circuit credit Browning for being a nationwide pioneer in bringing technology to improve public access in the courtroom and increase internal efficiency when managing a court's docket.   "The major innovations in court administration over the past 30 to 40 years, you'll find most of them started through the creative mind of Judge Browning," said Judge Sidney Thomas, a longtime colleague who was a 2010 finalist for a Supreme Court seat. "We had e-mail in the 9th circuit 20 years before anybody heard of the term, and this from a judge who has never been able to operate a computer. "  Browning served on the circuit from 1961 until his death last year. He was chief judge from 1976 to 1988.   The Judicial Conference, the third branch's policymaking board, allowed federal courts of appeals in 1996 wide discretion to decide for themselves whether to allow cameras in its courtrooms. Three years ago, a pilot program was extended to federal district, or trial, courts. Fourteen such courts nationwide are participating, and nearly 150 civil proceedings are available to be viewed online.   At almost 18,000, the case with the highest viewership involved a 2012 civil trial where several citizens alleged government surveillance of their phone and computer activity. Most federal courtrooms remain accessible for the public to watch in person, but seating can be limited.   Baby steps at the U.S. Supreme Court  As for the highest court in the land, still no cameras, but incremental steps over the years to greater public access. Audio of that week's arguments are now posted Fridays on the Supreme Court's website. It may be the easiest to sample the flavor of public session: only about 330 courtroom seats are available to the public and only on a first-come, first-seated basis.   A little-known fact about the high court is that it has been taping its arguments since 1955, initially in secret. Until three years ago, the audio from one term was not available until the beginning of the subsequent term, a wait of up to a year. And for decades, the only way to hear the reel-to-reel tapes was to go a National Archives and Records Administration annex in Maryland in person and listen on site. Typically only scholars and researchers were allowed access.   Now all oral arguments from 2010 are easily available to listen or download on the website. Earlier Supreme Court cases are available on the website oyez.org, a digital archive run by Professor Jerry Goldman and the Chicago-Kent School of Law.   But don't expect to soon see Justices Antonin Scalia or Sonia Sotomayor in their robes on CNN, mixing it up in the marble courtroom. Despite congressional efforts to introduce cameras there, the justices warn of unintended consequences.   "Please, senator, don't introduce into the dynamic that I have with my colleagues the insidious temptation to think one of my colleagues is trying to get a sound bite for television," Justice Anthony Kennedy told lawmakers in 2007. "We don't want that. Please don't introduce this into our intercollegial deliberations. "
It hosted the ATP tournament in the late '70s and '80s in the heyday of Madison Square Garden.   Brazil, meanwhile, is an emerging market that in the next three years will host soccer's World Cup, the Summer Olympics and a medium-sized tennis event in Rio.   However, moving the event elsewhere would be a "gamble," according to the former head of the ATP's commercial division, while Roger Federer -- whose record six finals wins are spread across London, Houston and Shanghai -- would have no issue with a further continuation.   Tournament director Andre Silva says staying in Britain past 2015 is "definitely" a possibility.   Unlike soccer's ruling body FIFA, which aims to take the World Cup to pastures new, the ATP's goal isn't to be "evangelistic" about tennis -- and London, with its packed crowds, has been a boon financially for the men's game.   "My personality isn't much for a change," Silva, a Brazilian, told CNN. "This is a different animal to the World Cup in that it's year to year, and you do want to expose fans around the world to this type of tennis.   "But the tournament is a very important part of the business of the ATP. More important than exposing everyone around the world to it is making sure it's healthy and not an experiment.   "I know a lot of people talked about Rio and New York. It's obviously great to be wanted. At the same time you need to be sure it makes sense -- and right now London makes a lot of sense. "  Federer, who lost to Novak Djokovic in last year's final, shared Silva's view.   "I must agree with Andre in many ways because I think it's important that this event is played in a place that knows tennis," Federer told CNN.   "I think it's good sometimes to play Shanghai, or maybe Lisbon or Sydney for a year, but I think it's not long enough in one place to put its roots down. "  Lisbon welcomed the world's top players in 2000 and Sydney did the same in 2001 in another one-year stint.   "It's like a circus," said Federer, who will this week tie Ivan Lendl's record of 12 successive appearances at the season-ending event.   "You come, the tent is there but it's temporary and you move it away again. So here the roots are down, it's successful and that's why if the business makes sense, if the numbers make sense, if the excitement of everybody involved makes sense, I think we should keep it here.   "Other options would have to be considered but it would have to be a great other option. "  Richard Davies, the CEO of ATP Properties before leaving his post at the end of 2010, said London was "twice as successful" in monetary value for the ruling body than other host cities.   Unlike when the season finale was showcased in Shanghai as the Masters Cup, the World Tour Finals are operated as a joint venture between the ATP and London's O2 venue owner AEG. All operating costs and revenues feed into the joint venture.   The Shanghai promoters paid the ATP for the right to run the tournament, and the purchasing fee -- believed to work out to about $10 million per year -- was all the latter received from the event.   "If there's no tennis fatigue at the O2 and it's still selling out, I think you have to ask yourself, 'What's the upside to move it elsewhere?' " said Davies. "At the ATP Tour, it's not their responsibility to be evangelistic about tennis.   "London is a great city and that helps corporately. You'd have to take a long, hard look to say, 'We're going to move it.' It's very profitable and to get a tennis-loving nation behind it in any other country at that time of the year will be a gamble. "  The success of the tournament has had a knock-on effect on sponsorship, according to both Davies and Silva.   Some companies get involved with the World Tour Finals and then decide to increase their affiliation with the tour throughout the year.   More than one million fans have walked through the turnstiles in the four editions, helped by a capacity of 17,800 that makes the O2 arena the second-largest regularly used tennis venue behind New York's Arthur Ashe Stadium.   Operating two sessions -- day and evening -- pads the coffers. Tickets to watch a single round-robin match range from 10-62 ($16-98), while seats for the final are 30-105 ($48-167).   "People want to be part of the event," said Silva. "They see how successful it is. They see the tour operates in a very successful way throughout the year and end up becoming global partners. "  Come the conclusion of 2015, London's term will hit seven consecutive seasons, a run only bettered by New York, which had an unbroken spell from 1977-1989.   With tennis a younger sport in China, crowds for opening matches disappointed, the time zone presented problems for broadcasters and viewers in Europe -- tennis' biggest market -- while players faced the long trip to Asia following the European indoor swing.   London lacks those issues, though players have complained about Britain's tax laws -- which restrict the number of days they can be in the country before being rated on their overall income.   The O2 is "one of the best venues ever" according to veteran doubles specialist Leander Paes, this week teaming up with Radek Stepanek.   "Playing in there, the acoustics are phenomenal," Paes, who turned pro in 1991, told CNN. "The crispness of it makes the quality of tennis so high."   Pondering the achievement of the event in London, Davies spared a thought for former ATP head Etienne de Villiers.   De Villiers was criticized for implementing a round-robin format at smaller tournaments, and the ATP was taken to court during his 2005-08 tenure for attempting to strip a German event of Masters status.   But De Villiers spearheaded the shift to London from Shanghai in 2009.   "People have short memories," said Davies. "It was a very bold move. The O2 wasn't an established venue and it had a slight miasma about it.   "To back ourselves and say we know we can build an event here, find sponsors and fill it with an audience really that has just had Wimbledon, outdoors ... we're going to take that tennis-loving public and tell them to watch tennis indoors -- it was a big decision. "
Credit the strong leadership of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid with keeping a remarkably diverse Democratic Congress together. When you can keep a strong conservative like Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia on the same page with the powerfully progressive Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota, you are definitely winning.   Meanwhile, the GOP, whose members range from conservative to ultraconservative, is at war with itself and its leaders. Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas led the fight on the Senate floor to block consideration of the funding bill. But after a pointless 21-hour talkathon, the majority of his GOP colleagues rejected Cruz's strategy. Senate Republicans split badly and bitterly; 25 voted against Cruz while just 19 voted with him.   In the House, it is chaos. The Neanderthals are fighting the Cro-Magnons and the Homo erectus tough guys are fighting the australopithecines.   Which side is more mainstream?   A majority of voters don't like the Affordable Care Act -- although that's a bit misleading, because a percentage of them dislike it because they think it doesn't go far enough.   I like it -- in fact, I love it -- but that's not the point of this column. Obamacare clocks in at just 29% support in a recent CNBC poll. So you'd think that the Republicans' position of repealing the ACA would be more mainstream. But you'd be wrong.   That same CNBC poll shows that Americans oppose defunding Obamacare, with only a little more than one-third of voters saying they want it defunded. They want to mend it, not end it.   What's worse for the Republicans, when the question shifts to whether you support shutting down the government and/or defaulting on U.S. debt in order to kill Obamacare, the GOP position loses by a crushing 59 to 19 percentage points. When you're down to just 19% of your countrymen and -women supporting your crusade, it's time (as we say in Texas) to pee on the fire and call the dogs: The hunt's over.   That is, no doubt, why the House Republicans have retreated to their new position: delaying Obamacare for a year rather than outright defunding it. But health care delayed is health care denied, and it's a bit of a reach to demand a one-year delay in the president's top domestic priority in exchange for funding the government for 10 weeks.   Which side is more reasonable?   It is hard to seem reasonable when you are pursuing a strategy that even conservative Republicans like Sen. Richard Burr called "the dumbest idea I've ever heard of." Keep in mind this is from a man who represents North Carolina, where the Republicans proposed a law barring federal courts from interpreting the Constitution, and allowing the North Carolina Legislature to declare a state religion. (Which might have passed had they chosen the right religion for the Tarheel State: college basketball.)   And yet there is hope for the GOP here. Every time the president says "I will not negotiate on the debt ceiling" -- a phrase he utters even more often than "Just pass me the ball, Joe, I'm open!" -- he risks looking unreasonable.   As a matter of substance, I strongly agree with his position. But as a matter of rhetoric and positioning, he would be better served to state his position this way: "I will gladly listen to any idea to improve the Affordable Care Act, or reduce the deficit, or any other ideas my Republican friends might have. But first we have to avoid default. That means paying the bills that Congress has already incurred. Once we've done that we can negotiate on anything. "  Same substantive position: Negotiations on policy come only after the nation avoids default. But this formulation emphasizes the president's willingness to be flexible on improving the ACA and other Obama priorities.   Of course, nothing is certain in life. But if I were a betting man, I'd bet on President Obama and the Democrats in this fight. As long as Republicans appear more divided, more extreme and more unreasonable, they are going to lose. And then they will look weak as well.   The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Paul Begala.
"  "Unfortunately we will feel its effects for years to come, as guns that were lost during this operation continue to show up at crime scenes both here and in Mexico," Holder said. "We are losing the battle to stop the flow of illegal guns to Mexico. "  Holder defended his own actions, reminding the panel he called for the inspector general to examine the so-called Operation Fast and Furious and issued a directive that "gun-alking" was illegal and should never be repeated. The resulting report may be concluded before the end of the year.   However, Holder stopped short of laying blame for the flawed operation.   Last week, his assistant attorney general, Lanny Breuer, expressed "regret" for his failure to alert Holder about a similar earlier operation called "Wide Receiver" which had employed similar ATF "gun-walking" tactics during the Bush administration.   At the hearing Tuesday, Republican Sen. Charles Grassley of Iowa said, "It doesn't matter how many laws we pass if those responsible for enforcing them refuse to do their duty -- as was the case in Fast and Furious."  Grassley pressed Holder at the hearing about who had leaked a sensitive document to the press regarding a whistle-blower who had come forward with allegations of gun-walking. Grassley asked who was being held accountable.   Holder refused to answer, but several hours later Grassley said Justice had provided him a document in a classified setting.   Grassley revealed that former U.S. Attorney Dennis Burke, who resigned from his post, had leaked the document to the press.   Still, the senator said, he is not satisfied. "The Justice Department should not be allowed to continue to scapegoating the one person who has resigned," Grassley said, promising to pursue the matter further.   Despite the disagreements, Holder pressed for congressional cooperation. He made a plea to the committee for strengthening the authority of the ATF to detect and disrupt illegal gun trafficking, and urged full funding for the ATF to combat gun-running.   He added: "I am determined to ensure that our shared concerns about Operation Fast and Furious lead to more than headline-grabbing Washington 'gotcha' games and cynical political point scoring," Holder concluded.   Holder has the support of Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vermont, chairman of the committee, who opened the hearing by reciting successes by the Justice Department under Holder's leadership.   On Monday, Leahy tried to lower the heat on Holder by raising it on the Bush administration for Operation Wide Receiver. In a letter to the Justice Department inspector general, the senator asked whether the current investigation also will cover the Bush-era supervision of the ATF in 2006 when, he said, "hundreds of weapons apparently moved beyond the custody and control of the ATF and possibly into Mexico and Arizona. "  Leahy said that then-Attorney General Michael Mukasey may have been briefed in the case in 2007.   Holder faces what is likely to be a much more hostile environment next month when he testifies before a House panel, where Republican Darrell Issa, R-California, will wield the gavel and control the questioning.   CNN's Tom Cohen contributed to this report.
Despite the eulogy, Battams said we have to wait for the Hubble Space Telescope or other telescopes to confirm ISON's fate. "It seems unlikely at this stage that anything of significant size remains but Hubble observations would help clear that up," Battams told CNN in an e-mail.   NASA also hinted there may be a bit of hope for ISON in its latest update posted online Wednesday. The agency said it will use space telescopes to monitor ISON for the next several weeks because it's possible that dust is hiding a new, smaller version of it.   "Most agree that up to 90% of ISON was destroyed, leaving approximately 10% of the comet intact. If previous sungrazing comets are any guides, there may be a sizeable piece of comet nucleus left. At this point, though, scientists are waiting for a variety of telescopes to make observations before the status of Comet ISON can be confirmed. "  2. What do we call ISON now?   "I don't think there is an official term yet," Battams said. "I have been referring to it as a comet remnant, and that seems pretty appropriate. "  3. ISON wasn't a flop.   Okay, it won't be a "Great Comet" or the "Comet of the Century." But ISON did become a social media superstar and it gave scientists tons of data. "It's disappointing that we didn't get a spectacular naked-eye comet," Matthew Knight of Comet ISON Observing Campaign said in a NASA science article. "But in other ways I think Comet ISON was a huge success. The way people connected with Comet ISON via social media was phenomenal; our Comet ISON Observing Campaign website earned well over a million hits; and I had trouble downloading images near perihelion because NASA's servers were swamped.   "So maybe ISON was the 'Comet of the New Century,'" he said.   NASA deep-sixes Deep Impact comet hunter  4. ISON won't be forgotten.   ISON's fate has become a near obsession for a special Facebook group set up by physicist and astronomer Padma Yanamandra-Fisher with the Space Science Institute and the ISON observing campaign. More than 300 members have been tracking the comet and sharing amazing pictures. Many are still looking for ISON's remains and they aren't ready to declare it dead.   "I think the evidence shows that something catastrophic happened to the comet, but I don't think anyone is 100% sure," said Yanamandra-Fisher. "Ground-based observations and orbiting telescopic observations, such as Hubble Space Telescope, later in December are important. "  5. But wait, there's more!   Believe it or not, ISON is not the only comet! "There are several comets to enjoy right now," Battams says. He likes Comet Lovejoy (discovered by Australian amateur astronomer Terry Lovejoy), Comet Encke and Comet LINEAR.   "The bottom line is that there are several comets still visible, and even when the bright comets have gone, there will always be more. The night sky is full of wonderful things to observe, too, so people absolutely should get outside and explore the skies!" Battams said.   If you're ready to go comet-hunting, here are some websites that ISON observers say might help:
"  The letter, published in German by Der Spiegel, was written on Friday in Moscow and provided to Der Spiegel through a "locked channel," the news magazine said. It was published in German and has been translated by CNN.   Snowden, 30, has admitted in interviews he was the source behind the leak of classified NSA documents, which revealed the existence of top-secret surveillance programs that collect records of domestic e-mails and telephone calls in the United States and monitor the cell phone and Internet activity of overseas residents. He is wanted in the United States on espionage charges.   A recent report by Der Spiegel, citing documents provided by Snowden, alleged the NSA monitored German Chancellor Angela Merkel's cell phone. Some reports also suggest the United States carried out surveillance on French and Spanish citizens.   The allegations have prompted some European countries to call for investigations. It also has prompted congressional hearings in the United States, where some are calling for more transparency and more oversight of American spy programs.   Opinion: Don't underestimate risks of government spying  'Witch hunt'  The letter also accused governments of trying to squash debate about mass surveillance "with a never before seen witch hunt" that threatens journalists and criminalizes the publication of details about the programs.   In the letter, Snowden purportedly writes that his actions were bringing about change.   "The debate they wanted to avoid is now taking place in countries around the world," the letter said.   "And instead of causing damage, the use of this new public knowledge is causing society to push for political reforms, oversight and new laws. "  Snowden has been in Moscow since June after fleeing from Hong Kong. In August, Russia granted him asylum for one year.   Snowden gets website job in Russia  The release of the open letter is the second in a matter of days from Snowden, who released a letter to German authorities through an intermediary.   Last week, Hans-Christian Stroebele, a member of Germany's parliament, met with Snowden in Russia. Stroebele returned from the meeting with a letter from Snowden to German authorities, which was distributed to the media.   In it, Snowden said he is confident that with international support, the United States would abandon its efforts to "treat dissent as defection" and "criminalize political speech with felony charges. "  "I hope that when the difficulties of this humanitarian situation have been resolved, I will be able to cooperate in the responsible finding of fact regarding reports in the media, particularly in regard to the truth and authenticity of documents, as appropriate and in accordance with the law," he wrote.   Report: Snowden's Russia asylum not breached by NSA spying reports  'Face justice'  The White House did not immediately respond to Snowden's claims in the letter.   But earlier Sunday, White House Senior Adviser Dan Pfeiffer said on ABC's "This Week" that there has been no discussion of granting Snowden clemency.   "Mr. Snowden violated U.S. law," Pfeiffer said. "And our belief has always been that he should return to the U.S. and face justice. "  It was a sentiment echoed by the heads of the House and Senate intelligence committees.   "He had an opportunity -- if what he was, was a whistle-blower -- to pick up the phone and call the House Intelligence Committee, the Senate Intelligence Committee, and say, 'I have some information,'" Sen. Dianne Feinstein, chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said Sunday on CBS' "Face the Nation. "  House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, R-Michigan, said Snowden has to "own up with what he's done. "  "If he wants to come back and open up to the responsibility of the fact that he took and stole information, he violated his oath, he disclosed classified information -- that by the way has allowed three different terrorist organizations, affiliates of al Qaeda to change the way they communicate -- I'd be happy to have that discussion with him," Rogers said on "Face the Nation. "  Opinion: Leakers and governments should work together
"  Talk of the NSA's reported spying on Germany and other allies dominated Merkel's news conference in Brussels, Belgium. It illustrated the anger over this story in Europe and the challenges facing Washington because of it.   The Chancellor insisted she isn't the only one concerned; other European leaders, she said, voiced similar sentiments during the first day of the summit Thursday.   Her comments echoed some she'd made upon arriving Thursday in Belgium, when she said that discussions of "what sort of data protection do we need and what transparency is there" should now be on European leaders' agenda.   "We need trust,..." she said. "Spying among friends is never acceptable. "  Germany: U.S. might have monitored Merkel's phone  U.S. President Barack Obama understands it's a "necessity" for change from his nation's perspective, according to Merkel, who spoke with the American leader on Wednesday after Germany's government said it had information the United States might have monitored her phone.   She told Obama that eavesdropping among friends is "never acceptable, no matter in what situation," she said.   On Thursday, White House spokesman Jay Carney repeated what he said Wednesday -- that Obama assured Merkel that the United States is not monitoring and will not monitor her communications.   And in a USA Today op-ed published online Thursday night, Obama's homeland security and counterterrorism adviser Lisa Monaco conceded that recent "disclosures have created significant challenges in our relationships." To address them, the President has ordered a "review (of) our surveillance capabilities, including with our foreign partners," she wrote.   "We want to ensure we are collecting information because we need it and not because we can," said Monaco.   The German allegation comes in the same week that French daily newspaper Le Monde reported claims the NSA intercepted more than 70 million phone calls in France over 30 days.   And The Guardian newspaper -- citing a document obtained from U.S. government contractor-turned-whistleblower Edward Snowden -- reported Thursday that the NSA monitored phone conversations of 35 world leaders. The confidential memo is from 2006, which is before Obama became president. None of the monitored world leaders is identified.   The phone numbers were among 200 handed over to the NSA by a U.S. official, the memo states. Others were encouraged to share their "rolodexes" with the agency, according to the document, even though tracking until then had yielded "little reportable intelligence. "  Like Carney, NSA spokeswoman Caitlin Haden refused "to comment publicly on every specific intelligence activity. "  "As we have made clear," she added, "... the United States gathers foreign intelligence of the type gathered by all nations. "  European leaders push for data protection  It's not clear how well such explanations will be received by Washington's allies in Europe elsewhere, or how significantly it has and will continue to affect the European Council meeting.   The two-day summit was supposed to focus on the digital economy and economic and social policy issues, as well as concerns about EU migration after a recent shipwreck off an Italian island in which hundreds of migrants from Africa died.   But French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault told the French National Assembly on Tuesday that France would ask for the question of electronic surveillance to be added to the agenda.   The EU leaders were expected to discuss data protection issues as part of their debate on the digital economy.   Viviane Reding, vice president of the European Commission, called for EU nations to commit to adopting a data protection law in light of the recent spying scandals.   "Data protection must apply to everyone -- whether we are talking about citizens' e-mails or Angela Merkel's mobile phone," she said. "We now need big European rules to counter big fears of surveillance.   "At the summit today, Europe's heads of state and government must follow words with action: They should commit to adopting the EU Data Protection Reform by spring 2014. This would be Europe's declaration of independence. Only then can Europe credibly face the United States. "  'Completely unacceptable'  Even before the latest allegations, Germany and other nations had expressed concerns about alleged U.S. spying after Snowden -- a former National Security Agency contractor -- leaked classified information about American surveillance programs.   Spy chief: reports of NSA logging French phone calls are false  German news magazine Der Spiegel reported in June that leaks from Snowden detailed how the agency bugged EU offices in Washington and New York, and conducted an "electronic eavesdropping operation" that tapped into an EU building in Brussels.   Merkel spoke with Obama by phone in July about allegations that the United States was conducting surveillance on its European allies.   Merkel made it clear that if the information about the U.S. having monitored her phone were true, it would be "completely unacceptable," spokesman Steffen Seibert said of Wednesday's call with Obama.   A spokesman for David Cameron declined to answer questions Thursday about whether the British Prime Minister's phone had been tapped by the United States, following Germany's suspicion about U.S. monitoring of Merkel's cell phone.   "I am not going to comment on matters of security or intelligence," the spokesman told reporters at a regular briefing.   Ayrault: 'Shocking' claims  Ayrault described the report of widespread spying by the NSA on French calls as "worrying" and "shocking," saying that security should not be guaranteed at the price of a loss of freedom.   Report: U.S. intercepts French phone calls on a 'massive scale'  However, U.S. Director of National Intelligence James Clapper suggested that the claims made by Le Monde were false.   The articles "contain inaccurate and misleading information regarding U.S. foreign intelligence activities," a written statement from his office said Tuesday. It added that the United States does gather intelligence of "the type gathered by all nations. "  Nonetheless, the allegations prompted a flurry of diplomatic activity this week between the United States and France.   Obama and French President Francois Hollande spoke about the claims Monday.   "The President and President Hollande discussed recent disclosures in the press -- some of which have distorted our activities and some of which raise legitimate questions for our friends and allies about how these capabilities are employed," a White House statement said.   "The President made clear that the United States has begun to review the way that we gather intelligence, so that we properly balance the legitimate security concerns of our citizens and allies with the privacy concerns that all people share. "  Hollande's office said the President expressed his "deep disapproval with regard to these practices" to Obama and that such alleged activities would be unacceptable between allies and friends.   The two Presidents agreed that French and American intelligence services would cooperate on investigating the report, according to the statement from the French President's office.   French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry also met Tuesday to discuss the claims. The U.S. ambassador to France, Charles Rivkin, was summoned to the French Foreign Ministry in Paris on Monday to discuss the alleged spying.   Claims of U.S. spying, resulting from leaks by Snowden, have also soured U.S. relations with Mexico and Brazil.   Der Spiegel recently published allegations, citing Snowden as its source, that the U.S. National Security Agency "systematically" eavesdropped on the Mexican government and hacked the public e-mail account of former Mexican President Felipe Calderon.   Mexico to summon U.S. ambassador over spying allegations
"I told them, listen, I'm on your side. As a father, I don't want my son to be in danger. And I don't want him to harm anyone. Put on the table what kind of proof you have against my son. Let's cooperate and work together as a parent," he said.   "But they never had anything -- which is what makes me believe that they had another agenda. Which is the one he always mentioned. That they want him to be an informant and work for them. "  This pressure was the reason for his son's return to Somalia, Mohamad Hashi said. "He never had peace here. He was being harassed all the time. "  Mahdi Hashi traveled to Egypt and Syria as a teenager. Then, in 2010, his family says, Hashi returned to Mogadishu.   He got married, had a child and then, in December 2011, he disappeared.   Stripped of citizenship  In July last year, his family received a letter from Britain's Home Office stating that Hashi had been stripped of his citizenship for the "public good. "  "The reason for this decision is that the Security Service assess that you have been involved in Islamist extremism and present a risk to the national security of the United Kingdom due to your extremist activities," the letter says.   Then, on December 21, 2012 -- almost a year after he disappeared -- Hashi turned up in a U.S. criminal court in Brooklyn, New York, charged with "material support" of a terror organization, Al-Shabaab, and allegedly training to be a suicide bomber. Two other men were charged with him.   "As alleged, these defendants are not aspiring terrorists, they are terrorists. They did more than receive terrorist training: they put that training to practice in terrorist operations with Al-Shabaab. Their capture and prosecution are important steps in the continuing campaign against terrorism," said George Venizelos, the assistant director in charge of the FBI's field office in New York, in a statement announcing the charges in December.   Hashi denies all the charges, according to his American lawyer, Harry Batchelder.   A statement from the FBI says Hashi was arrested in "Africa" by local police in August last year and then handed to the FBI.   According to his lawyers, Hashi says he was detained in Djibouti in June. He saw cellmates beaten and tortured with electric shocks there, Hashi says.   He claims he was given a choice in Djibouti: Sign a confession or be tortured.   Eventually he was turned over to U.S. authorities, who flew him to the United States, Batchelder said. The lawyer cites the FBI as saying he arrived in late November.   Hashi's British citizenship was stripped from him just a short time before he was put on a plane to the United States, Batchelder said.   That move is being challenged before a special board of immigration appeal, he said. "But as of now, the British government has offered no assistance to this matter whatsoever. "  'New and improved rendition'  Hashi's father doesn't understand how his son has ended up in a Brooklyn criminal court.   "He has never been to the United States even for a holiday. He has never threatened the United States. We don't know why he was taken all the way there," he said.   From his parents' point of view, he was kidnapped and taken to the United States.   Batchelder said Hashi's case is an example of a disturbing new trend he has heard called "new and improved rendition. "  "I mean that the agonies that were inflicted in earlier renditions, the government has reacted to that, but they still take people from foreign countries, bring them into the United States, and they're going to try him here," the attorney said.   "In my mind, that has long-term ramifications that, if carried out to their logical end, would mean the 20,000 people in Somalia are now eligible to be brought to the United States and tried in a U.S. court. That's a little bit disturbing, and that's an understatement. "  Because he is no longer considered a British citizen, Hashi has received no help from the British government. His mother told CNN it has changed the way she thinks of her adopted homeland.   "When we came this country, it was (as) you know, asylum seeker," she said. "They said you are welcome. And now (they say) you are welcome to be hunted. For our kids, our brothers and sisters. The whole community, not only my son. "  Mahdi Hashi is now fighting to regain his British citizenship while in a New York detention center. But exactly how he disappeared off the streets of Mogadishu and reappeared in a Brooklyn courtroom remains a mystery.   CNN's Iona Serrapica and Laura Perez Maestro contributed to this report.
The most recent, and tragic, tale to emerge concerned the death of two construction workers after a crane collapsed at the Arena Corinthians in Sao Paulo -- due to host the World Cup's opening match.   Friday marks the start of a countdown to June 12 next year, when Brazil will begin a month-long festival of football, likely to captivate the world.   Where?   The draw will take place in the resort of Costa do Sauipe in Bahia on the northeast coast of Brazil.   In attendance will be representatives from each World Cup nation as well as FIFA's top brass, including president Sepp Blatter.   The ceremony will be broadcast live to 193 countries from 1 p.m. local time (1700 CET) with 1,300 guests alongside a bank of 2,000 reporters.   As ever, there will be entertainment, including turns from Brazilian singers Alexandre Pires and Vanessa da Mata as well as dance troupe Companhia de Danca Deborah Colker.   There has been some controversy already when the two actors scheduled to host the draw -- Lazaro Ramos and Camila Pitanga, who both have dark skin -- were replaced by another married celebrity couple, Fernanda Lima and Rodrigo Hilbert, who are blond and white.   What is it?   The World Cup draw determines which of the 32 nations will face each other in the group stages.   Teams will be drawn into eight groups of four, based on FIFA's seeding system and geographical separation, meaning that teams from the same qualification zone can't be drawn in the same group.   There is an exception for European countries, given there are 13 participating in the tournament, but no more than two from the region can be drawn in the same group.   The winners of a particular group will face the runner-up of another when the tournament enters its final-16 stage -- the first of the knockout rounds.   The seedings  Eight teams in the draw are seeded -- seven are the highest placed teams from FIFA's rankings, the other is host Brazil.   The top seven when the seedings were announced in October comprised of defending champion Spain along with Germany, Argentina, Colombia, Belgium, Uruguay and Switzerland.   The seedings are calculated on how a team has played over the past four years, with the most recent year given greatest importance. Teams earn ranking points for a win or a draw but nothing for a defeat.   The points vary with each game depending on who is playing and whether it is a friendly or qualifying match.   Uneven numbers  When there are eight unseeded European teams -- as in 2010 -- the draw works easily and smoothly, meaning FIFA can organize the nations into four pots of eight teams.   But because there are nine unseeded European teams in the 2014 World Cup, things become a little more complicated.   FIFA has decided to put these nine teams into one pot, and prior to the draw they will pull out one nation to go into pot two with five African nations and the two unseeded South American sides.   That country will be selected at random, despite France -- which qualified through the playoffs -- being the lowest ranked nation from the European qualifying phase.   This random element has not gone down well with some of the other countries in that part of the draw.   Pot X  As a starting point, Brazil will automatically be drawn into Group A due to its role as host.   Then the other seeded teams will be allocated their groups, which runs as far as Group H.  And then it gets rather complicated.   With one of the unseeded European teams now residing in pot two, there are now nations from three geographical zones in the same pot.   That increases the chances of three European teams ending up in the same group, a violation of FIFA's "geographical separation" principle.   As such, the governing body decided to create "Pot X" into which four of the seeded South American teams will be placed.   One is drawn out and then paired together in a group with the unseeded European team from pot two.   After that, the rest of the teams will be allocated to their groups -- with the only other issue residing with Chile and Ecuador, who can skip a group in order to avoid being drawn with seeded South American teams.   Group of Death  As ever with any high-profile soccer draw there is the potential for the much-touted "Group of Death. "  Whichever unseeded European team is plucked out of pot four and put into pot two might be forgiven for watching the rest of the draw from behind their sofa.   That nation will be guaranteed to face one of the South American seeds from Pot X -- Brazil, Argentina, Colombia or Uruguay.   Then they could face the United States from pot three and either Italy or Netherlands from pot four, making qualification for the last 16 much harder.
Investigations into this have targeted top clubs such as Napoli, and involved a raid on the Italy team headquarters ahead of Euro 2012.   "This is exactly the type of result which can be achieved when police share information in real time and use Interpol's global network to locate, identify and arrest suspects," said the head of the worldwide policing agency, Ronald Noble.   "The arrest of this suspected match-fixer could not have been achieved without Italy and Singapore's close cooperation with Interpol, nor without a great deal of behind-the-scenes work by prosecutors and magistrates.   "Those who doubted Singapore's ability or commitment to fight match-fixing and bring those wanted for arrest to justice need to understand that Singapore acts when the evidence exists and is shared and when their laws permit. Singapore and Italy remain two of Interpol's most active and effective member countries. "  Interpol said Suljic was one of more than 500 fugitives wanted by 59 member countries as part of 2012 Operation Infra-Red -- which has so far led to 130 people being arrested or located.   He is suspected of working for Singaporean businessman Tan Seet Eng, also known as Dan Tan, who is also wanted by Italian authorities.   Italian police said Suljic had "spent a long period of inaction in Singapore in close contact with other members of the group of this organization, including a well-known Singaporean citizen. "  Meanwhile, Singapore police said Thursday that four senior officers will go to Interpol's French headquarters in Lyon during the next fortnight to assist in match-fixing investigations.   The force said it hoped to help build "a concrete case" against the individuals and syndicates involved.   "The team aims to collect available information from these countries and seek their assistance to grant us access to evidence, witnesses and/or suspects whom they believe to be involved in the alleged match-fixing cases," read a statement.   "The team will also be exploring avenues to offer our assistance and share available information we have with these affected countries. "  Match-fixing has been described as a "disease" afflicting football by the secretary general of world governing body FIFA.   On Tuesday, Chinese club Shanghai Shenhua was stripped of its 2003 domestic league title and fined $160,000 after a crackdown against such activities.   It was one of 12 clubs involved, along with 33 individuals. Four former China internationals and an ex-World Cup referee were banned for life, having been jailed a year ago for the same offenses.   Interpol's European equivalent Europol has also revealed that 380 matches on the continent are under investigation, including top-level Champions League games.   The international players' union FIFPro said in December that it is planning to launch an online match-fixing "hotline" for its members.   On Wednesday, the acting president of the Asian Football Confederation highlighted the need to eliminate match-fixing from the game.   "We need to admit that match-fixing is a real danger to football's ethical values and needs to be eliminated to preserve the sanctity of the sport," Zhang Jilong told delegates at the Interpol conference in Kuala Lumpur.   "Match-fixing is too complex and widespread for one organization to fight it alone. To fight this, we need a joint and coordinated effort."   Interpol official Dale Sheehan highlighted the social costs of match-fixing.   "Criminals can make millions in illicit profits from match-fixing with little risk of being detected and will exploit every opportunity," he said at the conference.   "Sports and fair play are the very fabric of our society and youth, and the impact of match-fixing -- including murder, suicide, assault and threats -- has the ability to undermine that very fabric. "
Ottawa's Communications Security Establishment Canada, or CSEC, did not comment to the CBC, according to that news outlet.   When similar reports have surfaced in the past. U.S. government officials have pointed to the Obama-ordered review of America's intelligence gathering -- which gained steam after reports that German Chancellor Angela Merkel had been spied on -- but refused to comment on specific claims.   But they also have not backed away from the idea that the U.S. spies, just like other nations do.   "As we have made clear, ... the United States gathers foreign intelligence of the type gathered by all nations," said NSA spokeswoman Caitlin Haden in October, when the Merkel reports stirred tensions between traditional allies in Germany and the United States.   The new CBC reporting does not specify which world leaders, if any, were targeted during the G8 and G20 summits, or what specific information may have been obtained.   Nor does the Canadian news outlet's account of the NSA documents spell out what role, if any, the CSEC had in it. If that Canadian agency had been complicit in snooping on anyone -- be they Canadians or foreign nationals -- without a warrant, it could violate that North American nation's laws, the CBC reports.   G8 summits are meetings of world leaders from the Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Russia, the European Union and the United States. G20 summits incorporate a larger group, traditionally taking place once or twice each year.   During these meetings, leaders traditionally discuss a wide range of important and sometimes hot-button issues. At the end of 2010's G8 summit in Toronto, for example, the group issued a final statement focusing on recovery from a global economic crisis while also criticizing Iran and North Korea.   The fact that Snowden is linked to the CBC's report isn't a big surprise.   The now 30-year-old worked as an information technology contractor for the U.S. government. He collected information on his native country's spy programs, then exposed them to media outlets such as the Guardian and the Washington Post.   Some of the reported leaks -- like that the National Security Agency mined phone and Internet metadata from thousands of people inside and outside of the United States -- put the Obama administration on the defensive, trying to justify its spying programs while assuring Americans of their privacy. Others, like the claims that Merkel was spied on for years, forced Washington to do damage control with leaders of countries overseas.   U.S. authorities have charged Snowden with espionage and theft of government property. But they haven't arrested him: Instead, he is in Russia, which on August 1 granted him asylum for one year.   This isn't the first time that documents from Snowden have been linked to G20 spying.   Britain's electronic intelligence agency monitored G20 delegates' phones and tried to capture their passwords during a summit held there in 2009, the Guardian newspaper reported, citing documents obtained from Snowden.
Indeed, the game plays with the concept of time from its very beginning. An Edwardian barbershop quartet sings "God Only Knows" by the Beach Boys. A mechanical horse is advertised as "Horse of the Future Today." The city itself feels like a floating World's Fair, with new inventions, a carnival-like atmosphere and everyone speaking about how much better things will be tomorrow -- all based on the prophet's guidance.   The environments are colorful and vibrant, reflective of the game's disparate moods of optimism and turmoil. The city feels like it has gravitas while remaining lofty in the clouds. There is even a beach and "ocean," so I guess we get to see where rain really comes from.   Steampunkish "voxophones" and "kinetoscopes" scattered throughout the city help provide aural and visual backstories for current events. They fill in the history blanks and give the player a better understanding of actions that take place.   Of course, Elizabeth is key to the Prophet's plan to bring judgment on the sinners below, so Booker's time in Columbia is not going to be an easy one. Combat in "Infinite" is based very much on the principles from other "BioShock" games, with some slight tweaks.   Instead of plasmids (the power source in the first two games), so-called vigors are the source of Booker's environmental powers. From throwing fireballs to directing flocks of ravens or firing lightning bolts, the vigors are permanent once acquired and powered by salts found throughout the city. Think of salts as ammunition for your vigor weapons.   'Bioshock' creator talks history, writing and 'nerdity'  There are more traditional weapons as well. Pistols, shotguns, machine guns -- they're all here. Both the guns and the vigors are upgradable through purchased additions at vending machines, so keep an eye out for coins wherever you find them.   The nice addition for combat is making vigors and weapons dual-wieldable. You can mow down an opponent with bullets or rockets while tossing them in the air with a Bucking Bronco vigor. In previous games, this was an either/or venture, so it is nice to be able to mix and match your attacks to whatever you choose.   However, the heart of the game is Elizabeth.   She is your constant companion throughout the game, offering help in combat or pointing out items you might miss as you travel throughout Columbia. Her ability to create windows into other worlds can help bring in supplies or allies during battle as well. She is also a master thief who can pick locks quickly.   Elizabeth is never in danger during combat and never takes damage. In that way, she is not one big escort mission but a true companion during your adventures.   Getting Elizabeth just right was a massive undertaking for Irrational Games and Levine, who said the game's release date was pushed back a year solely to perfect her.   Their success lies in the empathy the player develops toward her as the game progresses. You feel and see her frustrations, her joys and her pain. Her tiny movements, such as bending over to closely examine a new item for the first time (even one that has no bearing on the game), give her a human feeling without treading into Uncanny Valley (where animation comes so close to actual human behavior that it causes discomfort).   Without going into spoiler territory, there were two separate instances where I really thought the development teams nailed it. The first was during a tense situation early in the game where Elizabeth is trying to understand what's going on and why people were fighting over her.   Booker tries to explain that different sides want different things from her. Her response: "Well, I want a puppy, but that doesn't mean I'm going to get one. "  It felt like the way a teenager would react to a stressful situation.   The second came during a scene in which Booker is talking with people who suddenly disappear. As a gamer, I shrugged it off and accepted it. However, when I turned around, I caught sight of Elizabeth, who was standing there with the best "WTH?" look I've ever seen in a video game.   Little moments like that combine to reveal a character who isn't just a companion but who helps move the story along in a meaningful way.   At first, you want to help yourself. Later, you want to help Elizabeth. By the end, you want both.   The experiences will linger. And your emotions will be real. In this way, Levine and his team have succeeded in creating not only an excitingly wonderful game but one that will make the player think for days after the game is done.   "BioShock Infinite" earns its title by the end of the game. The possibilities, like time and space, are endless.   The overarching narrative portrays struggles on so many different levels, but it is your story of struggle that is ultimately important and the one you guide to its conclusion.   "BioShock Infinite" is available worldwide on Tuesday for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and Windows PC. It is rated M for mature due to blood and gore, intense violence, language, mild sexual themes and use of alcohol and tobacco. This review was completed using a provided retail copy for the Xbox 360.
Words flying from person to person, nonstop, on the go.   As, meanwhile, on those same sidewalks, the men and women with the satchels weave their way through the people with the screens, on their appointed rounds to deliver words by hand.   The visitor from space, or from a future century, might think this scene -- mailbag luggers walking amid screen tappers -- is like witnessing ox carts amid hovercraft.   As might an efficiency expert, or a business consultant.   Which summarizes the continuing headache faced by officials in charge of the United States Postal Service.  The price of a first-class stamp is going up again in the new year: On January 26, it will increase by three cents, to 49 cents per letter.  Federal regulators last week approved the rise on an allegedly temporary basis -- the higher rate is supposed to last for no more than two years -- but no one really expects it to go back down.   The Postal Service reports that it lost $5 billion in the last fiscal year -- and this is being presented as good news.  The year before, it lost almost $16 billion.  But there are fewer and fewer envelopes in those satchels, so each stamp will come with a higher price tag; the billions of dollars the Postal Service is required to pay each year to pre-fund health care for future retirees is a burden heavier than anything that would fit into a mail sack.   Yet there are reasons to hope that the Postal Service finds a way to stay around for a very long time.   The Postal Service, like UPS, FedEx and other private delivery companies, is a stand-alone  business.  It is expected to sustain itself; it does not depend on tax money.   But, unlike UPS and FedEx, the Postal Service must go to Congress to get explicit approval for the rates it charges, and for many of the rules under which it operates.  This is why it costs the same amount to send a letter across the country as it does to send a letter to the next town.  This is why mail service is universal -- why those carriers are required to show up each day at virtually every address in the United States.   Forty-nine cents may seem like a lot to mail a first-class letter.  But if the Postal Service were to collapse under financial pressures and competition from digital means of communication  -- if the Postal Service had to throw in the towel -- do you really think that UPS or FedEx or some other courier service would take your envelope across the country for 49 cents?   Over the Christmas holiday, the failures by UPS and FedEx to get packages to some customers on time were  prominent in the news.  As efficient as UPS and FedEx usually are, the existence and ubiquity of the Postal Service has a lot to do with what keeps them on their toes.  Their business model is: We cost more than the Postal Service, but because of that you can count on us to be reliable and accountable to you.  If the Postal Service were to go away -- if that check on the other carriers, that extra impetus for them to excel, were to be removed -- what would the impact be on customers and businesses?  Could or would the other carriers pick up the slack, at a price that didn't dismay people?   One hopeful sign for the Postal Service has come from an unlikely source: Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon.  Amazon has announced that it will be delivering its packages on Sundays -- and that to deliver those packages it has arranged to use employees of the Postal Service.  The Postal Service has said that it is glad to have the business.  It without question can use the revenue.   Can daily delivery of mail continue forever in a digital world?  It's difficult to imagine how.  In Canada, the postal service has informed citizens that, over the next five years, it will stop all door-to-door delivery of letters and concentrate on delivering packages.  Most Canadians are already asked to pick up letters at community mailbox clusters in neighborhoods or apartment buildings; soon, everyone will.  It's the future.   Universal, inexpensive mail delivery in the United States has been one of the miracles of the nation's long story; if someone were assigned to build a system like it from scratch today -- carriers reporting to every U.S. address, six days a week, to drop off mail and see if there is any mail to go out, all for pocket change -- that person would have to concede: It can't be done.   But it was done, and, for now, it's still here.  For those who, in the digital era,  casually say that they'd be just as happy if the Postal Service were to simply disappear:  Be careful what you wish for.
The gun was created with a Stratasys Dimension SST printer, which can be purchased online for as little as $8,000.   Wilson fired the gun Saturday and the video was posted to YouTube on Sunday. The group's self-described "Wiki Weapon Project" is about a year old. Until now, the group had only reported being able to make plastic, interchangeable parts for firearms, but not entire weapons.   The Liberator is comprised of 16 interchangeable pieces, with a nail for a firing pin. According to the group, the barrel can be changed out to fire different kinds of ammo.   Not surprisingly, reports of the test-firing have reignited calls to ban 3-D-printed guns, which critics fear could easily fall into the wrong hands and create safety concerns because they'd be invisible to metal detectors.   New York Sen. Charles Schumer is one of several politicians pushing for stricter legislation that would ban firearms created with 3-D printers.   "Passing this law would not only prevent people from making these parts, it would raise awareness on the issue," Schumer said Sunday during a news conference. "We're facing a situation where anyone -- a felon, a terrorist -- can open a gun factory in their garage. "  Schumer is joined by U.S. congressman Steve Israel of New York, who has introduced legislation to renew a ban on plastic guns that is set to expire later this year.   "I don't want to make it easier for criminals and terrorists to bring plastic guns through metal detectors and onto airplanes," he told CNN's Jake Tapper on Monday.   It's an argument unlikely to sway Wilson, who has made no secret of his disdain for the U.S. government in particular and all governments in general. (Defense Distributed makes and sells components with names like "The Cuomo" and "The Pelosi," to tweak politicians who support gun control).   "For me, it's important as a symbolic political statement," he told CNN Monday. "And that statement is something like, 'No, the future we imagine is one of personalized manufacture and access to objects. It doesn't matter what the decision is on the Hill ... in this future, people will be able to make guns for themselves.'   "That was already true, but now it's been demonstrated in yet another technology. "  Despite that worldview, Defense Distributed applied for, and in March received, a federal firearm license which makes it a legal gun manufacturer.   Wilson acknowledged in a recent interview with Forbes that his creation could be used by criminals, but suggested that demonstrating the freedom to create them is more important than trying to stop that from happening.   "I recognize that this tool might be used to harm people. That's what it is: It's a gun," he said. "But I don't think that's a reason to not put it out there. I think that liberty in the end is a better interest. "  Defense Distributed is based near Austin, Texas. Wilson has emerged as the face of the group, although many of its members, including the owners of the 3-D printer the group uses, have chosen to remain anonymous.   The group's future plans include expanding the range of ammunition a 3-D printed gun can fire and making the guns printable with less expensive printers, such as the $2,800 Replicator 2 by Makerbot.
One of the houses was in Bahia de Banderas, a tourist town in western Mexico's Nayarit state, he said.   Mexican intelligence detected the alleged plot on September 6, he said.   Intelligence agents followed the trail and discovered that Cynthia Ann Vanier, a Canadian who was in direct contact with the Gadhafi family, was the leader of the ring, Poire said.   Vanier was arrested on November 10.   The next day, authorities arrested Gabriela Davila Huerta o Cueto, a Mexican living in the United States who Poire said was in charge of getting the false documents.   Pierre Christian Flemsborg, a Dane, was in charge of logistics, Poire said, and was arrested on November 11.   Also arrested was Mexican Jose Luis Kennedy Prieto, who helped obtain the phony documents, Poire said.   The suspects face charges that include falsifying documents and opening bank accounts under false identities.   According to Poire, the Gadhafis would have entered the country under the following aliases: Daniel Bejar Hanan, Amira Sayed Nader, Moah Bejar Sayed and Sofia Bejar Sayed.   Saadi Gadhafi remains in Niger, a landlocked West African nation bordering Libya, to which he fled this year as his father's regime was collapsing.   He had offered to negotiate an end to the war with the rebels in Libya after his father's troops lost control of Tripoli, but appeared later to change his mind.   Saadi Gadhafi's lawyer, Nick Kaufman, said he spoke with his client Wednesday.   "There is absolutely no truth whatsoever to the allegation that, since fleeing Libya where his life was in grave danger, Saadi Gaddafi has attempted to flout the restrictive measures placed on him by the international community," Kaufman said.   The alleged plot, however, would have been hatched while Saadi Gadhafi was still in Libya, before he fled to Niger.   Wednesday's announcement appeared to have been spurred by an investigation into the plot by the Canadian newspaper National Post.   The newspaper spoke with the CEO of a Canadian security company who said he was involved in the alleged plan to move Saadi and his family to Mexico. Gary Peters, CEO of Can/Aust Security and Investigations International, told the paper that the plan was to be carried out with the approval of the Mexican government, which was to have supplied the documentation.   Mexico contradicted that version with its own allegations Wednesday.   The National Post article mentioned Varnier, whom it identified as a Canadian consultant who traveled to Libya in July on fact-finding mission with Peters.   Two of the men who helped secure the private jet used for the trip were among those arrested with Varnier, the paper reported.   The Canadian government confirmed the arrest of a Canadian in connection with the case and said Canadian consular officials in Mexico City and in Ottawa were providing assistance as required.   Niger President Mahamadou Issoufou had reaffirmed his country's decision to grant asylum to Saadi Gadhafi, saying he should be allowed to stay and be treated like other Libyan refugees. Libya's National Transitional Council has blasted that stance.   A businessman, Saadi Gadhafi ran the Libyan Football Federation before the unrest began. He played soccer for Perugia in Italy for one season. Leaked U.S. diplomatic cables posted on WikiLeaks say he had "scuffles" with police in Europe.   Moammar Gadhafi was killed in Libya on October 20.   Another of Moammar Gadhafi's sons, Saif al-Islam Gadhafi, was captured after a gun battle in the Libyan desert. Senior Libyan military officials said they believe the potential Gadhafi successor was also trying to make his way to Niger.   Saif al-Islam had been on the run since shortly after rebels overran his father's Bab al-Aziziya compound in the capital in August.   The International Criminal Court in Netherlands wants Saif al-Islam for alleged crimes against humanity, including murder allegedly committed during the uprising.   CNN's Nic Robertson contributed to this report.
FULL COVERAGE: The Iraq War, 10 years on  I headed the U.N. inspections in Iraq at the time of the war 10 years ago. Today, I look again at the reasons why this terrible mistake -- and violation of the U.N. charter -- took place and explore if any lessons be drawn. Here are my thoughts.   After the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, George W. Bush's administration felt a need to let the weight and wrath of the world's only superpower fall on more evil actors than just Afghanistan's Taliban regime.   No target could have seemed more worthy of being crushed than Iraq's brutal dictator, Saddam Hussein. Sadly, however, the elimination of this tyrant was perhaps the only positive result of the war.   The war aimed to eliminate weapons of mass destruction, but there weren't any.   The war aimed to eliminate al Qaeda in Iraq, but the terrorist group didn't exist in the country until after the invasion.   The war aimed to make Iraq a model democracy based on law, but it replaced tyranny with anarchy and led America to practices that violated the laws of war.   The war aimed to transform Iraq to a friendly base for U.S. troops capable to act, if needed, against Iran -- but instead it gave Iran a new ally in Baghdad.   WATCH NOW: Iraq's phantom WMD  The Bush administration certainly wanted to go to war, and it advanced eradication of weapons of mass destruction as the main reason. As Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz has since explained, it was the only rationale that was acceptable to all parts of the U.S. administration.   The WMDs argument also carried weight with the public and with the U.S. Congress. Indeed, in the autumn of 2002 the threat seemed credible. While I never believed Saddam could have concealed a continued nuclear program, I too thought there could still be some biological and chemical weapons left from Iraq's war with Iran. If not, why had Iraq stopped U.N. inspections at many places around the country throughout the 1990s?   However, suspicions are one thing and reality is quite another. U.N. inspectors were asked to search for, report and destroy real weapons. As we found no weapons and no evidence supporting the suspicions, we reported this. But U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfield dismissed our reports with one of his wittier retorts: "The absence of evidence is not evidence of absence."   Rumsfeld's logic was correct, I believe, but it was no excuse for the American and British governments to mislead themselves and the world, as they did, by giving credit to fake evidence or assuming that if weapons items were "unaccounted for" that they must exist. They did not exist.   We inspected many hundred of sites, including dozens that had been suggested to us by various governments' national intelligence organizations. In a few cases we found conventional weapons -- but no weapons of mass destruction. The governments that launched the war claimed to be 100% convinced that there were such weapons, but they had 0% knowledge of where these weapons were.   I am not suggesting that governments should ignore information coming from their billion dollar intelligence programs. Such information is indispensable and collected with many means that are not available to U.N. inspectors.   However, I think one lesson from the Iraq war is that we should pay equal attention to the results of multimillion dollar international reports that are based on extensive professional inspections on the ground. In 2003, the alliance of willing states did not do that.   After the war it was reported that I and several others in New York had had our offices bugged during this period. If I was bugged, as I find very likely, I regret that those listening in did not pay more attention to what I had to say.   FAREED ZAKARIA: 5 lessons of the Iraq War  Fortunately, enough states did listen, and the U.N. Security Council was saved from green-lighting a war that was justified by false evidence.   The political leaders who have been criticized as responsible for launching the war on false premises have asserted that they acted in good faith, and that interrogation of leading Iraqis showed that the regime planned to revive its weapons program as soon as sanctions disappeared.   I am not questioning the good faith of the political leaders, but rather their poor judgment in bringing war and death to a country on flimsy grounds.   On February 11 -- less than five weeks before the invasion -- I told U.S. national security adviser Condoleezza Rice I wasn't terribly impressed by the intelligence we had received from the U.S., and that there had been no weapons of mass destruction at any of the sites we had been recommended by American forces. Her response was that it was Iraq, and not the intelligence, that was on trial.   ARWA DAMON: Iraq suffocates in cloak of sorrow  And during a telephone chat with Tony Blair on February 20, I told the British prime minister that it would be paradoxical and absurd if a quarter of a million troops were to invade Iraq and find very little in the way of weapons. He responded by telling me intelligence was clear that Saddam had reconstituted his weapons of mass destruction program.   At any rate, whatever view one took of the evidence of weapons, no one could believe in 2003 that prostrate Iraq was a threat to any other state.   I cannot judge whether Iraqi prisoners were sincere when they talked about Saddam Hussein's intentions to revive weapons programs after the end of sanctions. They might have said what they thought their Western interrogators wanted to hear. Either way, the risk of a revived weapons program was remote and hypothetical -- and the U.N. foresaw a system of reinforced monitoring to continue in Iraq and to provide an alarm bell even after a lifting of sanctions.   The most important lesson of the Iraq War, I think, has been that an overconfidence in military power has been replaced by an understanding that there are severe limitations on what can be achieved by military means.   OPINION: Media's failure on Iraq still stings   Intervening swiftly with arms and crippling strikes might be easy for a great power, but achieving desired political aims is another matter and exiting may be hard -- the phrase "If you break it, you own it" comes to mind. Vietnam, Afghanistan and Iraq have been long and costly engagements with very mixed results. Since then prudence has held the U.S. back in the case of Libya and so far in Syria.   Another important lesson is that today armed  international interventions are likely to be condemned by much of the world unless they are clearly  in self-defense or have been authorized by the Security Council.   Iraq was neither. Unless we remember this going forward, I fear there is nothing stopping this kind of tragedy from being repeated.
"I told him there are places that operate within the boundaries of the law which can be used for releasing sexual frustration, so they [the U.S. military] should fully utilize it or the marines won't be able to control their aggressive sexual desires. "  He said the officer refused to discuss the suggestion.   Reaction at home  Hashimoto's comments also found little support among political colleagues at home.   "A series of remarks by Japanese politicians related to our interpretation of [wartime] history have been misunderstood," Education Minister Hakubun Shimomura told reporters at his weekly press conference Tuesday. "In that sense Mr. Hashimoto's remarks came at a bad time. [But] I wonder if there is any positive meaning to intentionally make such remarks at this particular moment? As for the remarks about adult entertainment, I could not believe that it came from a man representing a political party. "  Fellow minister Tomomi Inada asked: "I wonder is this something the representative of a political party should say? I myself think the comfort women [issue] infringed the human rights of the women. "  Chief Cabinet Spokesman Yoshihide Suga did not respond directly to Hashimoto's comments but instead told reporters "the stance of the Japanese government on the comfort women issue is, as it has been stated repeatedly in the past, that they suffered unspeakably painful experiences and we keenly feel the pain when we think about them. "  Sex slaves  Many of the 200,000 women whom historians estimate were forced to become sex slaves for Japan's former Imperial Army were from the Philippines, China and the Korean peninsula -- all occupied territories at the time. While many have now died, a group of Korean survivors has spent years protesting outside the Japanese embassy in Seoul. They demand greater recognition of their suffering, as well as individual compensation.   Tokyo maintains its legal liability for wrongdoing was cleared by a bilateral treaty signed in 1965 with South Korea. For its part, the Seoul government expressed "deep disappointment" over Hashimoto's comments.   "There is worldwide recognition... that the issue of comfort women amounts to a wartime rape committed by Japan during its past imperial period in a serious breach of human rights," a foreign ministry spokesman told Agence France-Presse Tuesday.   "Our government again urges Japan's prominent officials to show regret for atrocities committed during Japan's imperial period and to correct their anachronistic way of thinking and comments. "  In 1993, the Japanese government released a statement acknowledging the "immeasurable pain and suffering" endured by thousands of women forced to have sex during World War II. It even vowed to include the comfort women issue in new junior high school textbooks for the first time.   But Japan's wartime past continues to loom over its relations with key Asian neighbors such as South Korea and China, which are currently strained by territorial disputes in the region.
And yet we couldn't allow ourselves to be emotional on the stand.   "We couldn't allow ourselves to show emotion, although I'm sure some came through, and I'm very, very proud of my peers and my jurors that were with us because they did a fantastic job of holding it together. "  That stoicism in the face of emotional testimony disappeared in the jury room, he said.   Zervakos said the 32-year-old defendant simply did not fit his image of a murderer. "When you look at a young woman and you think of the crime, and then you see the brutality of the crime, it just doesn't wash," he said. "It's very difficult to divest yourself from the personal, from the emotional part of it. "  Though the jury did not believe Arias' story that she killed Travis Alexander in self-defense, Zervakos said he believed Alexander abused her. "I'm very sure, in my own mind, that she was mentally and verbally abused," he said. "Now, is that an excuse? Of course not. Does it factor into decisions we make? It has to. "  Zervakos said Arias' 18 days on the stand hurt her case. "She was not a good witness," he said. "There were so many contradicting stories. "  But he expressed sympathy for her ability to endure her time on the stand. "I think the way the prosecutor was with her -- he's known for an aggressive style -- I think it was very hard, I think it would be difficult for anybody. "  A retrial for the penalty phase will begin on July 18, Judge Sherry Stephens said.   Jurors had deliberated since Tuesday on whether Arias should get a death sentence for the 2008 murder.   A source with knowledge of the jury's vote said there was an 8-4 split in favor of sentencing Arias to death.   Jurors refused to talk to reporters and immediately left the courtroom.   The hung jury brought to a close a chapter in the high-profile case, which has lasted for months.   But the trial isn't over. In many states, the death penalty would be off the table if the jury couldn't agree.   Not Arizona.   In a written statement, Maricopa County Attorney Bill Montgomery said prosecutors "will proceed with the intent to retry the penalty phase. "  "We appreciate the jury's work in the guilt and aggravation phases of the trial, and now we will assess, based upon available information, what the next steps will be," he said.   Emotions ran high in the courtroom as the jury's deadlock was announced. Arias appeared to be on the verge of tears. One of Alexander's sisters sobbed.   Even the voice of the normally stoic judge cracked as she dismissed jurors.   "Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the participants in this trial, I wish to thank you for your extraordinary service to this community," she told them. "This was not your typical trial. You were asked to perform very difficult responsibilities. "  As the jury filed out of the courtroom, one juror said, "I'm sorry" to Alexander's family.   Jurors had deliberated for more than 13 hours in the penalty phase of the trial when they told the court they wouldn't be able to agree on a verdict.   On May 8, the same jurors decided in 15 hours that Arias was "exceptionally cruel" when she stabbed Alexander 29 times, slit his neck from ear to ear and shot him in the face. They pronounced her guilty of first-degree murder.   For Arias to be sentenced to death, a jury's decision must be unanimous.   If Arias is sentenced to death, she would be the fourth woman on death row in Arizona. On Tuesday, she pleaded with jurors to spare her.   She called Alexander's murder "the worst mistake" she had ever made, "the worst thing I've ever done." She couldn't have imagined herself capable of such a grisly crime, Arias told the jury.   "But I know that I was," she said. "And for that I'm going to be sorry for the rest of my life -- probably longer."   Arias was living in Yreka, California, when she met Alexander at a business convention in Las Vegas in September 2006. That November, he baptized Arias into the Mormon faith, a ceremony Arias said was followed by anal sex.   Arias became his girlfriend two months later, she testified. They broke up in the summer of 2007, and Alexander began dating other women.   In June 2008, Alexander missed two appointments, prompting friends to go to his house. They found his naked body crammed in a stand-up shower.   He had been stabbed 29 times in the back and torso and shot in the head. His throat was slit.   After her arrest, Arias told an elaborate lie about masked intruders breaking into Alexander's house and killing him before she narrowly escaped.   Relatives who spoke with police described her as mentally unstable.   The trial, which started in January, has been rife with talk of sex, lies and digital images -- among them graphic autopsy photos.   CNN's Catherine Shoichet contributed to this report.
"We believe your order is causing us to violate our professional ethics. It's morally repugnant to us as defense counsel," said Lt. Col. Kris Poppe, head of Hasan's legal team.   He asked for a stay on her order, which would prevent it from going into effect. The judge then asked for a written document from the state bar establishing that continuing to work with Hasan would be an ethical violation.   "I will make it easy for you. I've given you an order ... and that relieves you of every ethical liability," Osborn said.   Poppe would have nothing of it, his voice raised in obvious frustration.   "The order does not relieve us of the responsibility. ... We believe we are doing something that is morally repugnant. This is not about saving my license ... this is about what you are requiring me to do today: assist this man in achieving the goal, which we believe is achieving a death sentence. "  The lead prosecutor chimed in, questioning the defense team's claims, saying that Hasan is mounting a legitimate defense.   "The government sees only two defenses: either 'I didn't do it,' or 'I did it, with an excuse.' He was caught with a gun in his hand," said Col. Michael Mulligan.   "I don't understand how that's repugnant to defense counsel -- I'm truly perplexed. "  In a military capital trial, a guilty plea is not an option. Hasan's official plea is that he is not guilty of the charges. But on Tuesday, Hasan used his opening statement to declare "I am the shooter. "  After the standby counsel argued Wednesday that Hasan was seeking the death penalty, Hasan objected, calling it "a twist of the facts." But he refused to submit his objection in writing, a move that Osborn requested to avoid revealing privileged information in open court.   The defense attorneys Thursday immediately appealed Osborn's ruling. But she gave no stay in the meantime. "We're going to move forward," the judge said, allowing the trial to continue unless a higher military court weighs in.   The trial resumed with the prosecution calling to the stand soldiers who were witnesses of Hasan's shooting spree.   The attorneys' request Wednesday halted what would have been the second day of testimony.   Although Hasan, a U.S.-born citizen of Palestinian descent, was granted his request to represent himself, Osborn ruled before the court-martial began that defense lawyers would act as standby counsel during the proceedings.   Expert: Judge can't let attorneys stop  Geoffrey Corn, a military justice expert at the South Texas College of Law in Houston, said the defense lawyers are in "a terrible predicament. "  "They have to stand by and watch the person they are ostensibly charged with assisting to represent himself essentially put a noose around his own neck, and they view this as fundamentally inconsistent with their ethical obligation as lawyers," he said.   But Corn said Hasan not only has the right to defend himself, "he has the right to do it poorly" -- even to the point of asking for death.   "The defense lawyers would love to get off this case, because it becomes unbearable," Corn said. "If you imagine having to sit there, being an ardent opponent of capital punishment, watching this guy seal his own fate with every move he makes, it must be torture. But the judge can't let them off the case. "  Military death row: More than 50 years and no executions  Witnesses describe horror of shooting  Hasan, an Army psychiatrist, was paralyzed by a police bullet during the rampage. He listened impassively as one of the first witnesses recounted the horror unleashed that November day at a processing center for soldiers heading to Afghanistan and Iraq.   Staff Sgt. Alonzo Lunsford stared hard at Hasan, appearing to brace for a cross-examination from the man who had admitted to shooting him seven times. But Hasan just stared back.   The courtroom turned silent as Lunsford was called as a witness. He was the first of several survivors scheduled to testify against Hasan.   Lunsford recounted how the gunman rose from a chair in the processing center, shouted "Allahu Akbar," pulled out a pistol and began shooting.   "It was a state of panic," Lunsford said.   Lunsford, a health care specialist, described how his friend and colleague, physician's assistant Michael Cahill, tried to hit Hasan with a chair to stop the shooting; Hasan shot him dead. Soldiers tried to flee or take cover inside the processing center as Hasan fired dozens of shots.   As Lunsford was checking behind him, "Major Hasan is turning the weapon on me," he said. "He has a laser on his weapon and it goes across my line of sight and I blink. In that time, he discharges his weapon. The first round, I'm hit in the head. "  A second shot caught Lunsford in the back. He decided to play dead for a while before changing his mind and deciding to run for the door. He made it out of the building but was shot five more times outside, he testified.   Hasan continued shooting at Lunsford even as he was receiving first aid outside the processing center, before police arrived. Officers shot and wounded Hasan, ending the rampage and leaving him paralyzed from the chest down.   After the prosecution finished questioning Lunsford, the judge asked Hasan whether he had any questions for the witness.   "I have no questions," Hasan said.   Hasan also declined to question Michelle Harper, who worked at the deployment center and was inside when the shooting began. Prosecutors played a recording of her 911 call, where she pleaded for help.   Scheduled to go to Afghanistan  Hasan had been scheduled to deploy to Afghanistan before the killings. Prosecutors hope to show that the devout Muslim had undergone a "progressive radicalization," giving presentations in defense of suicide bombings and about soldiers conflicted between military service and their religion when such conflicts result in crime.   Hasan did not want to deploy to fight against other Muslims and believed "that he had a jihad duty to kill as many soldiers as possible," said Col. Michael Mulligan, the lead prosecutor in the case.   Investigators found 146 spent shell casings in the room where the attack began, Mulligan said. Hasan carried two laser-sighted pistols and 420 rounds of ammunition, his pockets lined with paper towels to muffle the sounds of the magazines banging together, he said.   Internet searches on Hasan's computer used keywords like "terrorist killing," "innocent," "Quran," "fatwas" and "suicide bombings," Mulligan said.   Hasan told the panel in his opening statement, "We mujahedeen are trying to establish the perfect religion." But, he added, "I apologize for the mistakes I made in this endeavor. "  The mujahedeen consider themselves warriors who defend the Islamic faith.   Witness: 'His punishment will come'  Hasan told his family he had been taunted after the al Qaeda attacks of September 11, 2001. Investigations that followed the killings found he had been communicating via e-mail with Anwar al-Awlaki, the Yemeni-American radical cleric killed by a U.S. drone attack in 2011.   The case was first set to begin in March 2012, but was delayed repeatedly, notably over a previous judge's unsuccessful demand that the beard Hasan has grown while in custody be forcibly shaved.   Josh Rubin reported from Fort Hood. CNN's Ed Lavandera and Jason Morris contributed to this report.
"That automatically, in my opinion and according to the book, would nullify him as a trusted informant. "  "You may call him an informant by name. According to the bureau, according to the file, he is an informant," Fitzpatrick, who spent more than 20 years with the FBI, said before a federal jury in Boston on Monday. He ultimately recommended that Bulger's file be closed.   On cross-examination, prosecution attorney Brian Kelly asked Fitzpatrick rhetorically, "You wouldn't go to close a window if it wasn't open right?"  Much of Bulger's trial has been focused on whether he was an open informant for the FBI in Boston for two decades during the time prosecutors say he reigned over crime in South Boston, participating in 19 murders, racketeering, extortion and money laundering -- all of which he has been charged with.   The prosecution previously introduced a 700-page document that suggests Bulger was an informant. That assertion has been the crux of the prosecution's case, which wrapped up Friday.   The defense argues that Bulger had FBI agents on his payroll to protect him from wiretaps and indictments, but he never fed any information to the FBI.   Defense attorney Hank Brennan's line of questioning indicated that Bulger's counsel is attempting to shift the pendulum, and put the FBI on trial for corruption.   The defense called Fitzpatrick, 73, to testify about being called in 1981 to "stop the leaking in Boston. "  "Inside and outside FBI," there was a "leaking of information, causing lots of investigations to go south," Fitzpatrick said. He was assistant special agent in charge, head of the drug task force and white collar crime section of the FBI in Boston. Describing himself as a whistle-blower, he detailed instances when he tried to report leaks and corruption within the FBI in Boston.   In one instance, Fitzpatrick testified, the FBI and government strike force attorneys were resisting his efforts to get an FBI informant into the witness protection program.   "I was getting the impression that people were stonewalling our trying to get Halloran out of harm's way," Fitzpatrick said Monday. Brian Halloran, one of Bulger's former associates, agreed to cooperate with the FBI and implicate Bulger in the murder of a wealthy Oklahoma businessman. Two days after Fitzpatrick complained to his superiors that not enough was being done to put the man in witness protection, Halloran was shot to death, along with a friend, Michael Donahue, who was driving him home.   Bulger's "surrogate son" and former associate, Kevin Weeks, testified earlier in the trial that "Jim Bulger just kept shooting," describing Halloran's writhing, bullet-ridden body as "bouncing off the ground." Bulger was tipped off by his rogue FBI informant handler that Halloran was cooperating with the FBI, according to testimony from disgraced FBI agents.   Fitzpatrick contends he was ultimately forced to resign from his post in Boston because he was being retaliated against after reporting to headquarters that his boss was leaking information about grand jury testimony.   "The reason I left the FBI is because it was corrupt at that level," he said.   On cross-examination, sparks flew as prosecuting attorney Brian Kelly asked Fitzpatrick immediately, "It's fair to say you are a man who likes to make up stories? "  Kelly argued that in Fitzpatrick's memoir "Betrayal," the former agent falsely proclaims that he made the arrest of a mafia crime boss. Kelly produced the FBI report in court that made no mention of Fitzpatrick's name in the arrest report.   Fitzpatrick also contends in his book that he recovered the rifle used to shoot Martin Luther King Jr. Prosecutor Kelly brandished the 200-page report on the FBI's website documenting the MLK assassination, which does not make one mention of Fitzpatrick.   "Where's you?" Kelly asked Fitzpatrick.   "I was on the scene when shot was taken," he said.   Tension between attorneys is mounting as the trial gets into its final weeks. Kelly used words as ammunition as he read passages from Fitzpatrick's memoir amid a fiery line of questions. Bulger's attorney, J.W. Carney, had to reinforce his partner Hank Brennan's objections at one point, adding, "Apparently it takes two voices to get Mr. Kelly to stop talking. "  Kelly got Fitzpatrick to admit that he was not working in the FBI during the time the government began to make its case against Bulger, and said aloud to a very attentive jury, "you have nothing to do with the charges that bring us here today. "  Fitzpatrick is still in legal battles for his pension, which he lost as a result of being forced to resign five years early.   On why he titled his book "Betrayal," he said, "I felt betrayed.   "I think the government felt betrayed.   "The FBI was betrayed.   "The Justice Department was betrayed.   "There was a lot of betrayal going on. "  The defense plans to call at least 11 more witnesses, but the attorneys indicated that is subject to change.   Also Monday, Judge Denise Casper heard arguments on a defense motion to sequester the jury. Kelly said that it was "not necessary" to suggest this to the jury "at the 11th hour. "  Carney replied that there has "never been a more widely publicized or sensational case in this district," harkening to saturated media coverage and "statements that are so hyperbolic and prejudicial towards the defendant ... unlike anything anyone has seen. "  Casper has not yet ruled on the motion  Fitzpatrick said he met with Bulger only one time to evaluate him as an informant, and Bulger did not give him any valuable information. He added that the only information he ever gleaned from Bulger came from his FBI file, which was written by Bulger's rogue FBI informant handlers, John Morris and John Connolly.   Connolly is serving time for leaking sensitive information that cost two cooperating witnesses their lives at Bulger's hands. Morris was granted immunity from prosecution in exchange for testimony in 1998 in which he confirmed FBI misconduct.   Morris, who reviewed all informant matters at the time, drove Fitzpatrick to a meeting with Bulger in January of 1981. Fitzpatrick said Morris was "pumping him (Bulger) up" to Fitzpatrick, saying that Bulger was a "great guy."  Morris previously testified he accepted more than $7,000 in cash and gifts from Bulger.   Fitzpatrick said that when he met Bulger in a dark corridor in Quincy, Massachusetts, Bulger was wearing a baseball cap -- "Boston of course" -- and sunglasses. Bulger would not shake Fitzpatrick's hand, he said. "That's not a really nice way to start a conversation. "  "Most informants are really trying to help," he said. "They are trying to do the job. I didn't get that from him at first."   So Fitzpatrick asked him, "What are you doing for me? "  During a 30-minute conversation, Fitzpatrick said, Bulger never once gave him any valuable information. "Basically, he was not giving me info I was trying to get. ... He was not responsive to what I was out there to get. "  Bulger "said he was leader of the gang, top guy. That resonated with me because, you know in the FBI, you can't have the head of the gang as an informant, because then you are validating the gang, you are a part of the management, if you will," he said.   Fitzpatrick said Bulger told him he would never testify, which is rare for an informant.   "At one point, he (Bulger) even said, 'I am not an informant.' At that point I made a mental reservation ... 'what am I doing here, what's going on here?'"  Then Fitzpatrick, who thought this was a private meeting, was "shocked" to see Connolly, Bulger's rogue FBI informant handler, who "popped up" out of nowhere at the meeting, which Fitzpatrick said he was not entitled to attend.   Connolly served time on federal racketeering charges and is now in state prison serving 40 years on related murder charges stemming from his relationship with Bulger. He tipped off Bulger and his crew that an associate, Halloran, was cooperating with the FBI and implicating Bulger in the Oklahoma businessman's murder.   Ultimately, Fitzpatrick recommended Bulger be closed as an informant. Fitzpatrick gave the information to the special agent in charge, who passed the recommendation on to Washington FBI headquarters. Headquarters determined that Bulger was too valuable to taking down the New England Mafia and decided to keep him open.   Morris testified that he wrote a letter to headquarters to persuade them to keep Bulger on as an informant because of all the help he was giving the FBI in taking down the Italian mafia,
Using the traditional and mandatory Islamic opening, a voice intoned in Arabic, "In the name of Allah the most merciful..." and the centre of the screen began to fill with images and vignettes of all kinds of horrors: those aircraft slamming into the twin towers. US and allied vehicles being destroyed in Iraq and Afghanistan by IEDs (Improvised Explosive Devices); video cameras slaved to the sights of Dragunov sniper rifles blasting the heads off GIs and then murdering those who came to their assistance; suicide bombers driving explosive-laden trucks through fences and into buildings or crowds immediately followed by massive explosions. Sometimes such scenes would carry sub-titles giving the date and location of the horror. In other instances, there would be clips of the happy, excited suicide bomber explaining his joy at the prospect of martyring himself for such a noble purpose.   Power struggle: The North African gas industry targeted by militants  There would also be clips of their "Great Emir", Bin Laden, uttering in his quiet and reasonable sounding voice his latest threats to tear the heart out of the degenerate West. Then some stocky, heavily bearded, white robed and turbaned American, who we were told was Adam Gadahn, a Jewish Californian convert to Islam and Al Qaeda, made his first of many appearances. Gadahn was ridiculing -- in English, with Arabic sub-titles -- the American President and issuing dire warnings aimed at US audiences of the disasters that would befall America if the USA and her allies did not quit "Muslim lands".   Read more: Algeria crisis is a wakeup call for America  While Bin Laden was lionized by the young men around us, the star of each show was the brash, in-our-face (and happily defunct) Abou Musab al-Zarqawi, a Jordanian who was the former leader of the Iraqi franchise of Al Qaeda. Zarqawi had walked their talk regarding cleansing "Muslim lands" of the presence of infidels with passion, utter ruthlessness and without compromise. He was their man of action. He did, in their view, what others merely talked and fantasized about. The scene the young ones loved best on what we came to call "TV Night", was Zarqawi standing, legs planted wide, with a fierce and vicious open-mouthed grin on his face, firing the entire 100 round magazine of a SAW (a Belgian light machinegun), just past the camera with the sound jacked way up. We could almost hear his scream of whatever the Arabic equivalent is of "GET SOME!"  Read more: Algeria hostage crisis may be future of terrorism  Each time an episode of mayhem and destruction would occur on the screen, the crowd pressing around Louis and me would shout, "Allahu Akbar" and immediately swivel their eyes to watch how we were enjoying the show. Without my glasses, I could read none of the signs or sub-titles, so Louis would read them out loud until I quietly asked him to stop. The video did not need a great deal of interpretation.   Obviously, these propaganda videos were intended to pump up the boys, to remind them that they were part of a large global cause in which sacrifice was a major element. And it was having the desired impact; particularly for the younger mujahideen whose eyes glistened with excitement as they watched the Western infidels being butchered and humiliated over and over again. The senior members of the Group were less caught up in the show and the laptop operator was choosing the clips to be displayed with some care. I could only imagine what he was skipping and I did not for a moment presume that they were being avoided out of generosity but rather cold, hard pragmatism. They did not want to break their hostages, at least, not yet.   In many ways, both for the assembled Belmokhtar Group of AQIM, and for me, the scenes that elicited the strongest emotion were the all-too-familiar images of black-hooded, orange-clad figures, chained hand and foot, shuffling around those tiny cages in Guantanamo. These were indignities perpetrated by my side -- the 'good guys'. Those scenes of German Shepherds, fangs bared, straining to get at broken men cowering in corners and those piles of horrified naked bodies forced into obscene intimacy and, always, the iconic black-hooded figure, mutely perched barefoot on a box in a short black poncho with wires dangling from his outstretched fingers in the disgraceful Abu Ghraib prison in Baghdad, made me, in the midst of my own mental anguish, feel deep shame.   The leaden and menacing stares of our Al Qaeda captors eloquently made a mockery of our aggressive Western claims to harbour higher or superior values. The look on their faces declared that we had abandoned any alleged moral high-ground, which they, at least for the moment, sought to occupy with regard to their treatment of Louis and me, if only to demonstrate to themselves their own moral superiority.   It is therefore at least paradoxical that those wretched videotapes and photos of Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib may have resulted in Louis' and my captivity being less violent than it otherwise might have been, for it seemed to me that we were spared worse treatment because our abductors were anxious to demonstrate that they didn't stoop to such stuff, which, of course, we know is not generally the case. That particular myth, however, with that particular Group of AQIM hostage-takers, probably served us well.   Thus, I found that the most appalling of those TV Night videos images were not the mass murders and individual assassinations perpetrated by Al Qaeda and their allies against our soldiers and civilians, which were never easy to behold, but less difficult to understand. That was simply Al Qaeda being Al Qaeda. That was what they were. Rather, it was the intimate and almost palpable proof of our side's methodically applied, officially sanctioned, and so casually administered barbarity, that had been parsed into the bureaucratic banalities and legal niceties of officially sanctioned abuse and torture which was so hard to absorb. Viewing such scenes, I could not help but believe that if we were capable of such outrages and so carelessly willing to resort to torture-as-entertainment, then we had indeed strayed into truly dangerous ethical territory.   The ease with which faux-legal language was coined in Washington and unopposed throughout the West in a cursory attempt to legitimize the illegitimate; the arbitrary manner in which long-standing international conventions were set aside; and the glibness with which word-games and were employed to condone such practices, should have stunned us all. The methodical development of "black sites" and concepts like "extraordinary rendition" (sub-contracting torture) and "enhanced interrogation"; the invention of ersatz juridical explanations of why was not torture, and other such despicable behaviour, indeed made a mockery of our Western pretensions to be champions of human rights and international justice. Further, without a shred of doubt, they have massively increased recruitment to the Islamist cause and markedly amplified the threat against Western interests and the security of individual Americans and their friends and allies.   If the dreadful events of 11 September 2001 could so easily dismantle the bulwarks of free, just and open societies which had taken us centuries to build, then, yes, our claims to a higher moral standard were in fact a sham, and surely there were no effective limits to what we were prepared to visit upon our enemies, or merely anybody who got in our way.   No, these were not made-in-Canada practices, justifications and facilities, but how easily we in our country and our friends throughout Europe abandoned our much-vaunted principles and meekly, often enthusiastically, went along. The bulk of our usually vocal human rights advocates and politicians were muted or stunned into silence when the need to avenge the insult and atrocity of 9/11 was allowed to pervert the law and sully the reputation of our friends and neighbours; perversions which have done and continue to do the West incalculable harm throughout the world. We are clearly guilty by such association. And Louis and I were reaping the consequences.   The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Robert R. Fowler.
"  And this: "And we must be a source of hope to the poor, the sick, the marginalized, the victims of prejudice -- not out of mere charity, but because peace in our time requires the constant advance of those principles that our common creed describes: tolerance and opportunity; human dignity and justice. "  And this: "Our journey is not complete until we find a better way to welcome the striving, hopeful immigrants who still see America as a land of opportunity; until bright young students and engineers are enlisted in our workforce rather than expelled from our country. "  Opinion: Obama's America, better than what Founders imagined  Right about there, I realized that Obama is perhaps one of the least self-aware presidents we've ever had. He lives in his own world, of lofty ideals and soaring rhetoric. But, as he prepares for his second term, he can't escape his reality of his first term.   Here is a president who claims to be seeking a new kind of justice for illegal immigrants and their families, and yet he's deported more than 1.5 million of them and divided thousands of families.   Here is a president who won 71% of the Latino vote, and yet now -- with the departures of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and Labor Secretary Hilda Solis -- presides over a Cabinet with no Latinos serving on it.   The nominations for the top four Cabinet jobs have already gone out, and three of them went to white males. It's nice to see that group get ahead. They never get anything.   Mr. President, in your speech, you talked about the rights and privileges of Americans. You do know that many illegal immigrants refer to themselves as undocumented Americans. As they see it, they are Americans in every way but legal status -- Americans whose lives you're ruining and who you're depriving of liberty and the pursuit of happiness. They are, indeed, to use your words, "marginalized" and your heavy-handed enforcement policies and record number of deportations helped put them on the margins.   Opinion: Obama's ringing defense of liberalism  You have not done right by this group of people, or the U.S.-born Latino community that claims to support them -- at least in nonelection years. Nor have you advanced -- through your immigration policies -- the principles of "tolerance and opportunity, human dignity and justice. "  After all, just who do you think has "expelled" so many of these "striving, hopeful" immigrants from our country? That's right, Mr. President, you're the one.   The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Ruben Navarrette.
Rubio largely kept to his prepared remarks, except when he abruptly stopped talking about halfway through to reach for a drink of water.   The son of Cuban immigrants referred emotively to his personal story and that of his family, though his policy criticisms and proposals were largely in line with prevailing mainstream and, in some cases, conservative Republican thinking.   On immigration, for instance, on which Rubio has been one of his party's most outspoken proponents of efforts to "modernize" the current system, he didn't mention his past support of a route to citizenship for undocumented immigrants now in the United States.   The senator did generally advocate "a responsible, permanent solution to the problem of those who are here illegally." But he added that first, "we must follow through on the broken promises of the past to secure our borders and enforce our laws. "  Speaking about gun control measures, one of the most emotional parts of Obama's State of the Union speech, Rubio said he was for "effectively" dealing with such violence, then added, "but unconstitutionally undermining the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding Americans is not the way to do it. "  CNN Fact Check: Rubio says Obamacare needs a check up  He sharply criticized Obama on many fronts.   The president, Rubio claimed, had unfairly cast Republicans as opposing the environment and seniors, and only caring about rich people.   He contended that it was Obama who,if his plans are enacted, would hurt the majority of Americans by preventing the economy from growing.   "The tax increases and the deficit spending you propose will hurt middle class families," Rubio said, referring to Obama. "It will cost them their raises. It will cost them their benefits. It may even cost some of them their jobs. "  His remarks often reflected the sharp partisan divide on budgetary matters.   Top Democrats, including Obama, have consistently said that increased government revenues should be paired with spending cuts to bring down the deficit.   Congress already raised tax rates on top income earners as part an agreement in January to avert the worst aspects of the so-called fiscal cliff. And now, Obama and Democrats want to eliminate some tax breaks and loopholes to further raise revenue.   Republican leaders have sought to reduce the size of government and, therefore, generally oppose any increase in tax revenue.   5 things we learned from the State of the Union  They have called for aggressive spending cuts and steps to overhaul entitlement programs, while rejecting any new attempts to increase revenue as part of further steps to reduce the deficit.   Obama's "solution to virtually every problem we face is for Washington to tax more, borrow more and spend more," Rubio said.   The president did, in fact, propose several new programs aimed at bolstering the economy, though he insisted they wouldn't add to the deficit.   Opinion: Rubio missed the year of the woman  "The idea that more taxes and more government spending is the way to help hardworking middle-class taxpayers, that's an old idea that has failed every time it's been tried," Rubio said. "More government isn't going to help you get ahead. It's going to hold you back. "  Rubio said he agreed with Obama on lowering the corporate tax rate, but didn't mention the president's support for closing tax loopholes that inordinately benefit the rich.   Rubio backed school choice for all parents and said that student financial aid should evolve to help more "nontraditional students. "  Talk Back: Is giving the State of the Union the political 'kiss of death'?   On energy policy, the senator derided Obama's administration for "wasting ... taxpayer money on so-called clean energy ventures like Solyndra." Rubio favors "reform" of energy regulations and opening up "more federal lands for safe and responsible (oil and gas) exploration," both common Republican themes.   He spoke, too, of Medicare, the government-run health insurance program for seniors, arguing that changes are needed for it to continue. The president suggested he'd support "modest reform" of this entitlement program, but Rubio said Obama does not go far enough.   "I would never support any changes to Medicare that would hurt seniors like my mother," he said. "But anyone who is in favor of leaving Medicare exactly the way it is right now is in favor of bankrupting it. "  Near the end of his speech, Rubio prayed that Democrats and Republicans "can come together to solve our problems," contending that, if they don't, the consequences will be stark.   "If we can get our economy healthy again, our children will be the most prosperous Americans ever," Rubio said. "And if we do not, we will forever be known as the generation responsible for America's decline. "  Opinion: A kinder, gentler, wiser Marco Rubio
"  Making his third campaign-style appearance in three days, Obama again emphasized proposals from Tuesday's State of the Union address, such as raising the minimum wage to $9 an hour and providing good pre-schooling for every child as necessary to help people better themselves.   The president also called for Congress to vote on a package of gun proposals aimed at decreasing shootings like ones that occur daily on streets and in homes, as well as mass killings in recent months at a school, a movie theater and even a place of worship.   According to the Centers of Disease Control, there were 11,078 homicides by firearm in the United States in 2010, and 7,220 of the victims -- 65% -- were aged 15-34. In addition, 6,151 -- or 56% -- were African American, a demographic that comprises about 13% of the total U.S. population.   "This is not just a gun issue," he continued. "It's also an issue of the kinds of communities that we're building, and for that we all share responsibility as citizens to fix it. "  It all starts at home, the president said, calling "strong, stable families" and "loving, supportive parents" the most important ingredients for reducing violence.   Noting he was raised by a single mother, he called for promoting marriage and encouraging fatherhood, saying he wished he had a father around and involved when he was a boy.   "By the way, that's all kinds of parents," he added, drawing applause when he specified "it includes gay or straight parents. "  He acknowledged the challenge, saying "it will not be easy, but it can be done. "  "No solution we offer will be perfect," he said. "But perfection has never been our goal. Our goal has been to try and make whatever difference we can. "  Obama headed to his hometown after a White House ceremony Friday morning to award the Presidential Citizens Medal -- the nation's second-highest civilian honor -- to 18 people. They included posthumous honors for six educators killed along with 20 first-graders in December's Connecticut school massacre.   The president hugged family members of the slain teachers and administrators from Sandy Hook Elementary School in presenting the medals, saying: "We could not be more grateful to your loved ones, who gave everything they had" for the children in their care.   In his remarks later at Chicago's Hyde Park Academy High School, Obama mentioned Hadiya Pendleton, 15, who was killed by gunfire in the city last month after returning from taking part in inaugural activities in Washington.   Pendleton's parents were in the crowd Friday, just as they were at the State of the Union as guests of first lady Michelle Obama, who attended Hadiya's funeral.   The president said his package of gun measures was intended to save young lives and that "they deserve a vote," repeating the phrase a few times as he did in Tuesday's address at the Capitol.   Chicago's record murder rate: Don't blame guns alone  Fierce opposition by the National Rifle Association makes passage of any significant gun legislation uncertain. In response to Obama's State of the Union address, the NRA has sought to discredit the motives and impacts of legislation proposed by the president and Democrats.   "They only care about their decades-old gun control agenda  ban every gun they can, tax every gun sold and register every gun owner," NRA chief executive Wayne LaPierre said in a statement on Thursday. "This president has taken the art of public deception and manipulation to a whole new level."  Obama seeks an updated version of the 1994 assault weapons ban, which expired in 2004, that would prevent the manufacture and sale of some semi-automatic rifles modeled after fully automatic assault weapons.   Obama's emotional plea might lead to vote on guns  He also proposes limiting ammunition magazines to 10 rounds, expanding background checks to all gun transactions, including sales at gun shows. In addition, the president wants Congress to take steps to better screen people with mental illnesses, so they cannot obtain weapons.   Legislation proposed so far also would crack down on so-called straw purchases, in which a legal buyer purchases weapons for distribution to non-legal buyers.   The NRA and other opponents argue the Democratic proposals are veiled attempts to limit gun ownership and eventually take away weapons, and therefore violate the constitutional right to bear arms.   In particular, opponents contend the proposed ban on semi-automatic rifles focuses on a weapon used in a tiny percentage of killings and other gun violence.   Opinion: Chicago's violence took my dad, friends  Harold Pollack, co-director of the University of Chicago Crime Lab, confirmed on Friday that so-called assault weapons targeted by the proposed ban account for a small fraction of murders in the United States.   However, Pollack said the ban proposed by Obama can help reduce gun violence, especially what he called the psychologically impactful mass shootings such as the Newtown attack in which a lone gunman used a Bushmaster semi-automatic rifle.   The combination of such weapons with high-capacity magazines "facilitates mass homicides," Pollack told CNN, noting that professional criminals generally don't use such rifles that look like military weapons.   "The people who do use these weapons are often the most dangerous or most sociopathic," Pollack said. The Newtown shooter, a 20-year-old man living with his mother, took her legally owned guns and killed her before going to the school to open fire on students and teachers.   New player in gun control ad wars  To Pollack, such a mass killing -- while relatively rare -- "traumatizes communities and the entire society in a way that demands attention. "  Studies show that street crime such as shooting deaths cost communities more than lives, Pollack said, citing emergency medical services and criminal investigation as tangible costs along with intangibles such as residents moving away to escape the threat.   Obama also made that point in his remarks on Friday, saying "it's very hard to develop economically if people don't feel safe. "  In the aftermath of the Newtown shootings, the NRA called for putting armed guards at every school, rather than seeking to limit the ability of people to obtain weapons. It also wants tougher enforcement of existing gun laws, which Pollack agreed was necessary.   "A lot of the underground gun market could be stopped if we treated guns with the same amount of determination and tools as the drug market," he said.   For example, Pollack noted how committing a crime with a gun brought additional charges, and he called for similar treatment for illegally possessing a firearm.   How we talk about guns in my Chicago classroom  In a Google Hangout online chat on Thursday, a participant asked Obama how renewing the assault weapons ban would help reduce gun violence caused primarily by handguns.   He responded that his proposed package would affect handgun violence through the expanded background checks and cracking down on straw purchases. Renewing the weapons ban focused on what Obama called "weapons of war. "  "It's not going to solve every problem," the president continued, noting that some restrictions are already in place.   "We can't purchase a grenade launcher from a store, although there may be some folks who want to buy those," he said. "And the reason is we think on balance, the Second Amendment does not automatically assume that any weapon that's available you can automatically purchase."   NRA: Obama's State of the Union shows true colors on gun violence  CNN's Ashley Killough, Paul Steinhauser and Halimah Abdullah contributed to this report.
Romney had different ideas than the president about the war on terror, and he also had outspoken ideas on Russia, which he told Wolf Blitzer on CNN in March of 2012 was "without question our number one geopolitical foe. "  His statement drew snickers in Washington and complaints in foreign policy circles that he was stuck in the Cold War.   Archives: Hillary Clinton criticizes Romney's remarks on Russia  "You don't call Russia our No. 1 enemy -- not al Qaeda, Russia -- unless you're still stuck in a Cold War mind warp," President Barack Obama said at the Democratic National Convention last September.   The president probably still wouldn't call Russia this country's top foe. But now that Russia has given NSA leaker Edward Snowden a year of asylum, and the two countries can't find accord on Syria or Iran, he might choose not to put the line in his convention speech.   Snowden asylum could cancel planned Obama-Putin talks  "Now is the time to fundamentally rethink our relationship with Putin's Russia," Sen. John McCain said upon hearing news of Snowden's asylum. "We need to deal with the Russia that is, not the Russia we might wish for. We cannot allow today's action by [Russian President Vladimir Putin] to stand without serious repercussions. "  "Russia has stabbed us in the back," said Sen. Chuck Schumer, the New York Democrat. He called on Obama to protest by demanding the upcoming G-20 summit for world economic powers be moved away from Russia.   Biden's slogan, "General Motors is alive!" drew a direct contrast between the candidates on the auto bailout that Obama engineered after initial action by President George W. Bush.   Romney's much-cited New York Times op-ed argued the car industry should be shepherded into a managed bankruptcy and not propped up with taxpayer dollars.   The headline of Romney's op-ed in November 2008 was "Let Detroit Go Bankrupt." That headline followed him all the way to November of 2012 when he lost the election.   Romney's argument in the opinion piece was directed at the car industry, but it foreshadowed last month's news that the Detroit the city, once the powerhouse of the American economy, was going bankrupt.   "[W]e refused to throw in the towel and do nothing," Obama said in a video message in October of 2012. "We refused to let Detroit go bankrupt, I bet on American workers, and American ingenuity and three years later that bet is paying off in a big way. "  A conservative might apply the high labor costs Romney cited as part of the downfall for the auto industry to the cost of government worker pension plans that have helped put the city in trouble.   How to deal with promises made to public employees is an issue Americans will face in the coming decades in places far flung from the Motor City.   Hatch: After Detroit, replace public pensions  The federal government has made pretty clear there won't be any sort of bailout for the city of Detroit like there was for the auto industry that lives there.   CNNMoney: Why Obama won't bail out Detroit  Campaigns are full of little moments like the Detroit and Russia storylines that may have worked against Romney. They add up. More damaging for Romney than either the Detroit op-ed or the Russia as a foe storyline was his statement to fundraisers about giving up on the 47% of Americans who would not vote for him no matter what.   This week we also got the most in-depth explanation from Romney on those comments in the form of a book excerpt from Washington Post writer Dan Balz. Romney said he was misunderstood.   More: Romney regrets 47% comments  Archives: Romney doesn't back away from message caught on secret tape  In politics, eight months is an eternity. It's enough time for the Romneys to welcome four new grandchildren into the world. How Detroit and Russia and the 47% factored into 2012 are interesting historical questions, but the national dialogue has moved on. Romney is retired from national politics and the pundits and press have moved on to the 2016 parlor game.   Trio of potential 2016 GOP contenders heading to South Carolina
We get the necessary primer before putting in: Drink lots of water, they tell us. Always, but especially on this trip, what with the three cases of wine being loaded onto the rafts.   "Lunchtime": That's the answer I get when I inquire about the time. Days here are measured in meals. We've lounged away the morning on a people-free, rapids-free stretch of river in a thickly forested gorge, under a cover of damp fog -- like drifiting through a rain cloud. Even with limited visibility, we've seen a great blue heron, a kingfisher, Canada geese, an osprey, a quick glimpse of an otter and a bald eagle. The river is calm, and we don't have to paddle if we don't want to. Yet, somehow, a stretch and a bite to eat are in order. The chefs have managed to pack all our food, gear and elegantly rustic table settings on the rafts, leaving the rest of us to kick back while they set up and break down each feast.   Sunset.com: Mild and wild defined, plus more rafting trips  Wine-thirty: After several miles of floating, we pull off at the Tyee Campground, a woodsy gravel bar. For the first time in my life, I must assemble a tent alone. But the payoff is grand: I sit down to cumin-grilled Tawanda Farms lamb chops with apricot-jalapeno chutney, assorted Oregon cheeses, fruit, eggplant puree, green olive tapenade, cucumber salad and red pepper relish with wontons and flatbread; followed by pan-seared king salmon with Oregon wasabi-thyme aioli, lemongrass cous-cous and ginger-citrus slaw; and finally topped off with Dagoba chocolate s'mores with homemade marshmallows -- each course paired with wine. It'll go on like this for two more nights. I will persevere.   Sunset.com: The West's best dude ranches  Day 2  Splashing around: I try out one of the inflatable kayaks we've been towing. Nobody, including me, seems to care that I can barely steer. It could just be hypothermia from playing in the 58 water, but I'm feeling close to the river.   Group bonding: This evening's icebreaker involves a spree of mutual toenail painting. Oh, and wine. Lots of wine. Personalities have emerged. Maybe it's the Sewell Rhne Blend talking, but I like these people. After dark, the stars go so many layers deep that a few of us decide to sleep directly under them, and our tents become mere storage units.   Day 3  Campsite gourmet: At the grassy, rolling hillside of the Tacoma Campground, we dine under an old oak tree: smoked steelhead with cream cheese, capers and onions; roasted beets with sheep's-milk feta; greens with candied hazelnuts; grilled American Kobe-style flatiron steak with caramelized onions and housemade Worcestershire. The brussels sprouts sauteed with andouille win multiple approvals, including several from people who thought they didn't like brussels sprouts.   Day 4  The last toast: One last bracing swim and one final meal, when we compare favorite flavors: the Cinsault Ros, the Malbec, the Fiano, which worked so well with that asparagus; the crawfish cakes with remoulade, the seared duck breast, the lemon sponge cake with huckleberry compote, the everything else. It's safe to say that the uncorrupted outdoors has heightened my sense of deliciousness.   Sunset.com:The West's best food towns  The WILD trip: Chilko River, British Columbia  Day 1  Entry: My first glimpse of the Chilko is from 15,000 feet up in a tiny 10-seater plane, looking down the longest raftable stretch of continuous Class IV whitewater on the continent. Did I mention this is my first-ever rafting trip?   Beer talk: Our guide Mark has a shaggy river-rat beard and a Canadian lilt, and he's as skinny and spritelike as he is ruggedly reassuring. He instructs the eight of us -- a motley crew of three businessmen, a doctor, a lawyer, and a ranching couple -- on what to do if we run into a bear, how to tell a grizzly from a black, and how to prevent Mace mishaps. We're introduced to the Groover (a portable toilet).   Sunset.com: Top wow spots of the Hawaii volcanoes  Day 2  Calm water: After a paddling 101, our three rafts head out through the riffled water that the guides -- Mark, Brian and Jorge -- refer to as "calm." Which makes me and Ginny, the other whitewater rookie, mighty nervous about the hardcore rapids to come. We ride 22 miles, dipping our water bottles into the 50 glacier water on the way. The landscape looks surprisingly like New Mexico, with pine-covered mountains and mesas -- plus moose! We spot a chocolate-hued mother with calf and two bald eagles.   Day 3  Rapids!: Here they come. Deep breaths. We don our helmets, wetsuits and life jackets, and practice paddle maneuvers. Back paddle. Hard forward! We vanish into the rapids, as the raft bends and catapults and the waves pound through us on the famous great White Mile: 12 miles of rapids in 55 minutes -- yes, that longest stretch of continuous Class IV on the continent. Mark slides our 18-foot-2-inch raft through an 18-foot-4-inch gorge. We officially become whitewater junkies.   At camp: Tents are pitched while the guides set up and find a scenic spot for the Groover. Dinner is grilled chicken, fresh veggies with ginger butter, tiramisu, and five bottles of well-deserved wine.   Sunset.com: Best national parks -- avoid the crowds  Day 4  An "easy" day: Our raft gets hung up on a protuding log inside a rapid. Ever been inside a washing machine? On the "very cold" cycle? Jorge deftly extricates us, and we lay out clothes to dry on the rocks. We've entered hoodoo country.   Day 5  Class III cakewalk: Class III? No sweat. We talk politics as we run them. Camp goes up at Big Creek, with 200-year-old pines and grassy meadows. Mark reads stories about spectacular Groover mishaps (picture it overturning while you're in the way).   Sunset.com: The top 26 wilderness experiences  Day 6  The gaping jaws of death: Hang on! Hard forward!! Time for the 8-foot waves of the daunting Farewell Canyon, and I'm paddling too intently to see past the waves. We just clear the foam when Brian yells, "Bear!" and a young black bear runs up the cliff. After lunch, we take the two final, gargantuan rapids called Gaping Jaws of Death and Brains Smashed In. I'm drenched. We high-five with our paddles, and pull up to the raft carrying the beer cooler for a toast. Later, there'll be Champagne and reminiscing on a sandy beach under a red sky at our last campsite. And more Groover stories.   To read more rafting adventures, visit Sunset.com.   Enter to win a monthly Room Makeover Giveaway from MyHomeIdeas.com  Copyright 2004-2011 Sunset magazine. All rights reserved.
Tina Maze had been poised to add the slalom title to her overall, giant slalom and super-G Crystal Globes, having been denied the downhill when fog canceled racing on Shiffrin's birthday.   The Slovenian was the fastest on the opening run, and led the standings by seven points, but Shiffrin made up a 1.17-second deficit to claim her fourth World Cup race this season and become the fourth youngest woman to win the title.   She is only the third non-European to win the slalom globe, following compatriot Tamara McKinney in 1984 and Canadian Betsy Clifford in 1971. No other non-European woman has won four World Cup races in a season.   "I was freaking out, this time there was really too much emotion," said Shiffrin, who last month in Austria was the youngest winner of the slalom title at a world championships since 1974.   "I think half of this globe belongs to someone else today. I actually would like to thank Tina Maze. She's been inspiring, she's helped me get to where I am. "  She's also had strong support from her parents and coaching staff.   "After the first run I went directly to our athlete tent and just tried to sit quietly and figure out what I needed to do to make it better," Shiffrin said.   "It's hard to do that between runs in a race, but my mom helped, my coaches helped, my dad helped, everybody. They all just said the same thing, 'You have to let it go. You cannot hold back. There is nothing to lose.' So I tried to do that."   Maze had to settle for third place behind Austria's Bernadette Schild for her 23rd podium finish this season.   "In the first run I risked a lot and somehow in the second I didn't manage to risk as much," the 29-year-old said.   "Mikaela has been dominating slalom the whole season and I don't think I lost the globe here today, but somewhere else. "  Maze has already wrapped up the giant slalom globe ahead of Sunday's final race -- and American Ted Ligety confirmed his dominance of the men's discipline when he crowned his season with a sixth victory out of eight starts on Saturday.   "It's so ridiculous, it has been such an amazing year," said Ligety, who won three golds at the world championships and sealed the giant slalom globe last weekend with victory in Slovenia.   "I never would have expected it and in a way it's kind of a bummer as I will never be able to do that again. A really cool season and to finish it up with a victory. I couldn't be more pleased. "  Overall World Cup champion Marcel Hirscher was second to be giant slalom runnerup, and has already clinched the slalom title ahead of Sunday's final race.   "I cannot sleep. My head is so full, I keep thinking and thinking and trying to digest it all," the Austrian said.   "So much has happened this season and I have not had any time to get into terms with it. "
And then you see people who are a little bit older than you saying, 'oh Pele, he plays like Pele.' "  That nickname followed the attacking midfielder all the way from the red dirt fields in Ghana to some of the world's biggest football stages, including the 1993 Champions League final where he helped lead the French club Olympique de Marseille to its first ever European championship.   Read this: Cameroon's outspoken football star  Like his namesake, the Ghanaian "Pele" displayed a nimble athleticism on the pitch, dazzling defenders with his spectacular technique and blistering pace. He signed his first contract in 1978 with Ghana's Real Tamale United but it wasn't long before he attracted the attention of foreign scouts, becoming a pioneer for African football at a time when few players from his continent enjoyed major international careers.   He spent several years honing his talent abroad -- including spells in teams in Qatar and Benin -- before heading to France to play in the country's second division.   In 1987, he made his move to France's top league after being signed by Marseille.   But his first spell at the club in the south of France proved to be a short one as Ayew grew frustrated with the racial abuse he suffered from his teammates.   "I started playing with them and three weeks later I called my manager and told my manager 'look, I would like to change club because I wasn't accepted by the players," he reveals. "Any time they see me passing, they spit on the ground... [and say things like] 'go back to where you come from, go back to the bush.' "  Read this: Tiny town breeding champions  The Ghanaian star left Marseille after just one year and began playing for rivals Lille. But his excellent performances in his new team made Marseille's club president realize what he had lost and try to sign him back again.   Ayew was initially reluctant to play again for his former club but was eventually convinced by his wife who urged him to "go and prove to them that you are the best." So in 1990 he rejoined Marseille, where he enjoyed three golden years, culminating in the 1993 Champions League triumph over mighty Italian giants AC Milan.   "I felt proud because every footballer's dream is to win a Champions League," says Ayew. "Having the opportunity to be one of the first African players to win is huge and I think I was just happy. "  A champion in Europe, Ayew was also the heart and soul of Ghana's national team, which he captained for six years, starting in 1990. During his 16-year career with the Black Stars, he scored 33 goals in 67 appearances and played in a record five Africa Cup of Nations.   Read this: Teens shoot for U.S. glory  Ayew, who's seen three of his sons following his footsteps by playing professional football, ended his career with Al Ain the United Arab Emirates in 2000.   But his passion for football remains unquenched. These days, Ghana's football legend spends his time and money coaching and mentoring young players. Beyond the fundamentals of sport, he also tries to prepare them to face some of the challenges he overcame.   "We just try to ... ensure that they have a better career but it's not easy," he says. "It's not everybody who is going to be a very good footballer or to have a professional career.   "So what we try to do is we teach them how to be in a society and that is very important -- even if you don't succeed in the football pitches, outside you can live within the society and I think that needs a whole lot of respect and discipline. "
The prime ministers of Canada, Mauritius and India opted not to attend.   Cameron issued a statement Thursday saying he saw his attendance as "an opportunity to raise our concerns clearly and directly, and to focus the eyes of the world on Sri Lanka." He also reiterated calls for an investigation into alleged human rights abuses during and after the war.   Announcing Cameron's northern visit this month, UK Foreign Secretary William Hague said four years after its war ended Sri Lanka is "still a country where civil society is suppressed, where (nongovernmental organizations) and the media are routinely intimidated, where journalists and critics of the government have disappeared, and where no one has been held to account for alleged war crimes including rape and sexual violence. "  The north, Hague said, was "where some of the worst fighting and suffering occurred, and thousands of people are still displaced from their homes. "  On Friday, Cameron tweeted: "I'm the first PM or president to go to the north of Sri Lanka since 1948. I want to shine a light on chilling events there first hand.   "Political leaders in the north of Sri Lanka tell me they are glad I've come to help highlight what is happening here. "  Read more: Sri Lanka envoy slams rights criticism  ITN's Neely said the protesters who surrounded Cameron included both mothers of Tamils who had disappeared and pro-government protesters with signs saying "no interference" and "leave us in peace. "  As many as 70,000 people were killed in Sri Lanka's war. In its final stage, which lasted from September 2008 to May 2009, the Sri Lankan army advanced into an area of the north where about 330,000 people were trapped by fighting.   A U.N. report in 2011 said the government used "large-scale and widespread shelling" that left a large number of civilians dead.   The number of civilian deaths and injuries are unknown to this day, and U.N. figures greatly differ from those in reports from Sri Lanka's government and various nongovernmental organizations.   In his statement Thursday, Cameron said: "Together we must say clearly to the government of Sri Lanka -- our hosts -- that there must be accountability for the past and respect for human rights today," he said.   "Four years on from the end of the civil war and defeat of the 'Tamil Tigers,' a brutal terrorist organization, there has been nowhere near enough improvement. We need to see more progress: genuine freedom of expression and the media, an end to the intimidation of journalists and human rights defenders, action to stamp out torture, demilitarization of the north and reconciliation between communities.   "And of course we need to see a thorough investigation into alleged war crimes. "  On Friday, David Mepham, the UK director of Human Rights Watch, told CNN's Atika Shubert that calling for an international inquiry into what happened at the end of the war was one of the most important things Cameron could do.   "The Sri Lankans have their own process which is a bit of a joke -- there's a total lack of accountability -- so there needs to be an international inquiry. In addition to this, the UK needs to put real pressure on the ongoing human rights abuses in Sri Lanka today. "  In an interview that aired Thursday on CNN's "Amanpour," Sri Lanka's high commissioner to the United Kingdom, Chris Nonis, denied that an independent international inquiry is needed.   "We respect the independence and sovereignty of your country, and we expect you to respect ours. We don't need an international investigation when we have had a vibrant civilization for 2,500 years. We have perfectly educated people, and I think we're perfectly capable of carrying out our own domestic inquiry," he told CNN's Frederik Pleitgen.   Nonis pointed to the 2011 "Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission" report, which Sri Lanka's president ordered.   "It's a very holistic, very comprehensive, very impartial report. It had over 5,000 hearings, and it's set within the principle of international humanitarian law, incorporating the principle of distinction and the principle of proportionality. "  Nonis said the report had been released in full despite containing criticism of successive governments and the government had gone "a substantial way" toward implementing some of its recommendations.   The Commonwealth is a voluntary association of 53 nations that initially formed out of what had been the British Empire. Its charter focuses on developing "free and democratic societies and the promotion of peace and prosperity to improve the lives of all peoples of the Commonwealth. "  Heads of member governments meet every two years.
It is also a question roiling the current political debate, especially among tea party conservatives in this post-9/11, security-conscious environment.   The justices are using this case to explore the limits of congressional and presidential authority, with timely, far-reaching implications.   "It would be deeply ironic that we have expended so much energy criticizing Syria," for its government's alleged use of chemical weapons in an ongoing civil war, said Justice Sonia Sotomayor, "when if this court were now to declare that our joining or creating legislation to implement the treaty was unconstitutional. We're putting aside the impact that we could have on foreign relations. "  Professor accused of poisoning wife  "I just would like a fairly precise answer whether there are or are not limitations on what Congress can do with respect to the police power," Chief Justice John Roberts asked of the Obama administration's top lawyer. "If their authority is asserted under a treaty, is their power to intrude upon the police power unlimited?"  Bond, a native of Barbados, lived outside Philadelphia and worked as a microbiologist. As a federal appeals court succinctly summarized the relevant facts in the case: "Bond was excited when her closest friend, Myrlinda Haynes, announced she was pregnant. Bond's excitement turned to rage when she learned that her husband, Clifford Bond, was the child's father. She vowed revenge. "  The woman, known to her family as Betty, struck back by stealing dangerous a chemical -- arsenic-based 10-chloro-10H-phenoxarsine -- from her company. She also obtained potassium dichromate over the Internet. Both substances in heavy doses can cause toxic, even lethal harm with very little physical contact.   The 42-year-old then tried to poison Haynes some two dozen times over several months, secretly sprinkling small amounts of the chemicals on an apartment doorknob, car door handles, and a mailbox.   While suffering no more than a chemical burn on her thumb, Haynes grew suspicious -- one of the chemicals was a bright orange powder. After getting little help from local police, in 2007 she called postal inspectors, who set up surveillance cameras. Bond was videotaped stealing mail and placing chemicals inside the mailbox and a car muffler, court records show. She was soon arrested.   Bond admitted her guilt early on and claimed she never meant to kill Haynes, but only wanted to cause her "an uncomfortable rash." The defendant also said her friend's betrayal caused an "emotional breakdown" that made her respond in such a shocking fashion.   Instead of being charged with simple assault, which may have gotten her six months to a year or two in state prison, Bond was indicted in federal court on two counts of mail fraud and -- the bombshell -- two counts of violating a federal law and international treaty on the possession and use of "chemical weapons. "  When a judge denied her motions to transfer the case to state court, Bond pleaded guilty and immediately appealed. She received a sentence of six years behind bars and nearly $12,000 in fines and restitution. She was released in August 2012.   Did Utah doctor kill his wife?   During Tuesday's lively hour of arguments, Bond's lawyer, Paul Clement, called the Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act an "odd statute" that clearly exceeds congressional authority. He said the treaty was designed to deal with "warlike" behavior, not "ordinary" poisoning cases.   "I don't think that nation-states poison romantic rivals, attempt to commit suicide, or try to get rodents out of their houses" using chemicals that might have everyday non-criminal uses, he said, like vinegar.   Justice Elena Kagan was unconvinced. "You are imagining a world in which judges day-to-day try to get inside the head of treaty makers," where judges might say: "We understand that there's a national interest in regulating sarin gas, but we don't think that there's a sufficient interest in regulating some other chemical down the line. It seems to me a completely indeterminate test" for judges to delineate "what is in the national and international interest. "  Solicitor General Donald Verrilli agreed, defending the treaty and law by saying, "There can't be a 'too local' exception to the treaty power. "  The Justice Department says federal law broadly prohibits a person from knowingly using a chemical weapon in a way that can "cause death, temporary incapacitation, or permanent harm" to another person, which prosecutors said Bond admittedly did.   Verrilli dismissed a "parade of horribles"-- hypothetical suggestions that a sweeping treaty could be authorized giving the federal government complete police power over the states.   "It seems unimaginable that a convention of that kind would be ratified by two-thirds of the Senate, which it would have to be," he said.   "It also seems unimaginable that you would bring this prosecution," against Bond, said Justice Anthony Kennedy. "But let's leave it at that." The remark brought laughter in the courtroom, but Kennedy clearly was not joking.   Test your knowledge of the U.S. Supreme Court  Justice Antonin Scalia used the issue to delve into another controversial issue.   "Let's assume that an international treaty is approved by two-thirds of the Senate and the President, which requires states to approve same-sex marriage. All right?" he said. "Now, if that were a self-executing treaty, same sex marriage would have to be approved by every state. If it is not self-executing, however, it will be up to Congress to produce that result, and Congress would do it by having a federal marriage law. "  The conservative Scalia said to do so would be "dragging the Congress into areas where it has never been before. "  "If you told ordinary people that you were going to prosecute Ms. Bond for using a chemical weapon, they would be flabbergasted," said Justice Samuel Alito. "This statute has an enormous breadth -- anything that can cause death or injury to a person or an animal. Would it shock you if I told you that a few days ago my wife and I distributed toxic chemicals to a great number of children? On Halloween we gave them chocolate bars. Chocolate is poison to dogs, so it's a toxic chemical under the chemical weapons convention." Again there was audience laughter, but no smiles from the bench.   Justice Stephen Breyer also worried about the scope of federal power.   "In principle your position constitutionally would allow the President and the Senate, not the House, to do anything through a treaty that is not specifically within the prohibitions of the rights protections of the Constitution," he told Verrilli, citing a 1920 high court precedent giving Congress the power to enact treaties, even if it steps outside its traditional constitutional authority by usurping state laws. "And I doubt that in that document the Framers (of the Constitution) intended to allow the President and the Senate to do anything."   "I am worried about that and I think others are, too," the left-leaning Breyer added.   Among those attending the arguments was former Justice Sandra Day O'Connor.   Justices prepare for hot-button cases - and hot internal rhetoric  There are about a thousand treaties signed by the United States currently on the books.   Many academics and lawmakers hope the majority right-leaning bench will use this opportunity to delve further into the scope of the 10th Amendment, which states, "The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved to the states respectively, or to the people. "  In the broader political context, a bipartisan sphere of Americans worry the federal government and Congress have been overly aggressive in staking claims to disputes they believe are best left to states, especially in the criminal arena.   And it is not just felonies. Areas like gun ownership, zoning laws, environmental regulations, taxation, health care, and education standards all could be re-examined in the wake of this high court decision.   Some of Bond's supporters argue that some federal prosecutions are novel and the penalties are often more harsh, creating conflict and confusion with local efforts to ensure public safety. They see Bond as an unexpected hero in the fight to return "the power back to the people. "  "The proposition that the Treaty Clause is a trump card that defeats all of the remaining structural limitations on the federal government is not a proposition that is logically defensible." Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, said last week.   Bond had won an earlier Supreme Court appeal, with a unanimous ruling she had "standing," or legal authority, to pursue her claims in the courts. That allowed her to continue trying to have her federal conviction tossed out, which is the current issue before the justices.   Her lawyers say she had been trying in
That was unusual back then when most professors graded on the bell curve and only a handful of the best students received an A. Some actually failed and most received grades of B or C.  But in the case of this particular professor everybody got an A. As a test, I surreptitiously enrolled a fictitious student into the roster of his next class. This "nobody" never came to class, never wrote a term paper and never took an exam. At the end of the semester the mysterious student received an A.  That led to a discussion with the professor. In a tone of righteous indignation he claimed I had overstepped my bounds to play such a trick on him. With righteous indignation I claimed that he had underperformed as a professor by acting in a reckless manner, grading his students with careless abandonment. Steam came out of both our ears. I believed his actions were a mark of failure in academic responsibility.   Grades serve several purposes. They are a tool that measures a student's progress in relation to others in a class; they allow financial aid and scholarship committees to assess merit; and they culminate in a 4-year overall performance record in the form of a college transcript. Academic strengths and weaknesses are discovered over a period of time.   To some extent Harvard's faculty have abandoned their responsibilities to their students as well as to those who wish to judge their students: Admission officers at law and medical school; faculty selecting graduates to mentor them for advanced degree programs; employers deciding between applicants for jobs.   Decades ago, professors were often characterized by their students on the severity of their grading. Professor Smith is a tough grader -- no one gets an A. Or, Professor Jones is an easy grader -- no one fails. What can be said today? All the professors are easy marks as well as easy markers.   Why give everyone an A? When the admissions office puts together a freshman class full of high school valedictorians who have perfect grades and SAT scores, there is no doubt they are bringing capable students to the campus. But the power has shifted from the faculty to the students and a new form of entitlement on the part of students has developed.   If students are paying $55,000 a year, they may feel they have paid for the As in dollars as well as sense. Is there an unspoken academic transaction that is filtering into the university landscape now that tuition prices are in the stratosphere? Has higher education morphed into a consumer business in which the customer is always right? It seems like it.   First, universities have to compete for students in the marketplace. Then faculties do the same after students enroll. Professors want to be popular. They want good ratings from students at the end of semester reviews just as the students want good grades from them. Gut courses, once the exception, have become more common.   Faculty tenure, promotions and raises may turn on such matters right along with publications and other measures. University life, long a contact sport, has been upgraded to a blood sport. It's become a "dog-eat-dog" business in which departments try to fill quotas for majors.   And then there are the parents who are quick to speak out if they think their sons or daughters are under appreciated.   Is there a solution that can stop grade inflation? Yes, of course.   In 2004, Princeton readjusted their grading system instructing the faculty not give more than 35% of their undergraduate students A or A- grades, and apparently Yale is currently discussing a similar adjustment. Harvard faculty should construct a ladder that has a rung at the bottom, middle and top.   Last week, I had the privilege to chair the Rhodes Scholarship selection committee for the D.C., Maryland, North Carolina district. We interviewed 13 semi-finalists and selected 2 award winners. All 13 were exceptional; the final decision came down to the splitting of hairs. Out of the 32 Rhodes Scholars named across the United States, Harvard students came away with 6, an impressive outcome however one slices the pie. Perhaps they are all A students. But now we know many Harvard students receive As.   The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Stephen Joel Trachtenberg.
When Luke is a much older man, Vader doesn't wear a helmet, Han Solo resembles a lizard and there is a character named Kane Starkiller, it might take some getting used to. But it's a fascinating part of movie history, no doubt.   CNN spoke separately to J.W. Rinzler, who adapted Lucas' script for comics, and artist Mike Mayhew.   CNN: What captured your interest when adapting this script?   Rinzler: It's so similar and yet so different at the same time. All the puzzle pieces are there but arranged to form a different picture. You've got Sith and Jedi, you've got a desert planet. You've got a planet with twin suns, an imperial city and a cloud city. When I read the rough draft, it had all those things which made me want to make it into a comic book. It's such a great story, George is a great storyteller.   CNN: Was it difficult to illustrate this story from a script written nearly 40 years ago?   Mayhew: Not at all. I've been in comics 20 years, and when I read the rough draft, I thought, I can make a comic of this tomorrow. It was just a very well-written screenplay, and that's what a comic book script is. This is genuinely George's first complete screenplay story of this tale, and it's wildly different.   You can see why some of it was changed because there's no way they could have done it. It was just too ambitious.   When you look at movies now like "Avatar" and "The Avengers," it seems prophetic. Audiences expect all that action and set pieces, and one thing after another. I'm sure back then they looked at this and thought, "What's this guy thinking?"  The other interesting thing is you see the origins of the characters we know and love. Darth Vader is kind of a general, he's one of the main heavies but he's not a lord of the Sith. Here, Vader is really three characters: General Vader, this Lord of the Sith named Valorum, and this mechanical man. You think you know these characters and then you discover their truer origins.   CNN: What do you think fans will take away from this book?   Rinzler: Based on early fan feedback from the first issue, they're really enjoying this alternate universe, and they're getting to read a story that's being told by George. Even through my adaptation, you feel his voice. You see many of the things you love in "Star Wars" but in a slightly different way.   You have the Tusken raider moment surging in front of the binoculars, except it's not a Tusken raider, it's a different character. Fans are saying they're reading it two or three times to take it all in.   Mayhew: This to me is the greatest "what if" story in comics. What if this made it to the screen? The mind reels at the possibilities.   CNN: Is there one particular thing that is farthest away from the "Star Wars" we know and love?   Rinzler: Everyone seems to latch onto the fact that Han is a big green alien. That's pretty far! He doesn't have his own ship. His character is probably the most different, although he can already talk to Wookies. It's fascinating to see all this stuff starting out, in a way.   What's really fun is that R2-D2 talks in this one. There's a couple of points where I felt like "R2-D2 should say something here," and I added a line and that was really fun.   Mayhew: The characters in this story are much different than the characters in "Star Wars." The relationships are a lot different and to me, more intense. Leia's story is a little more complicated, and she's more a part of the action. Annikin is more of a trained Jedi than Luke was. The older General Skywalker to me is so much cooler than Obi-Wan. This character is like Captain America, a bigger than life hero.   CNN: Is there a possibility that this alternate version of "Star Wars" could live on beyond these eight issues, at least in the fans' minds?   Rinzler: Fans have been asking already about this, because so many things are hinted at particularly in the first issue, about the past, or characters in the periphery, or just spoken of and not seen. They'd love to see those mysteries explained, but we have a little movie called "Episode VII" coming up and that will take precedence.   'Star Wars' cinematographer Gilbert Taylor dies at 99  J.J. Abrams talks production plans for 'Star Wars'
There's hundreds of people, wedding certificates are being issued, there's marriages taking place all over the hallways. Everybody's embracing. It's just a warm, wonderful moment in the state of Utah. "  In striking down the state law, which voters had approved in 2004, U.S. District Court Judge Robert J. Shelby wrote in a 53-page ruling that the state's "current laws deny its gay and lesbian citizens their fundamental right to marry and, in so doing, demean the dignity of these same-sex couples for no rational reason.   "Accordingly, the court finds that these laws are unconstitutional," he said.   Shelby said lawyers for the state had offered no evidence that opposite-sex marriage would be affected and that their "fears and speculations are insufficient to justify the State's refusal to dignify the family relationships of its gay and lesbian citizens. "  In addition, the Constitution protects the rights of same-sex couples, including their right to marry and to have that marriage recognized by their government, he said. "These rights would be meaningless if the Constitution did not also prevent the government from interfering with the intensely personal choices an individual makes when that person decides to make a solemn commitment to another human being. The Constitution therefore protects the choice of one's partner for all citizens, regardless of their sexual identity. "  The lawsuit was brought by one gay and two lesbian couples in Utah who wish to marry but have been unable to do so because the Utah Constitution prohibits same-sex marriage.   The decision was greeted with joy from a spokesman for GLAAD, formerly the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation. "At last, loving and committed couples in Utah will have the opportunity to celebrate marriage equality this holiday season," said Wilson Cruz in a posting on its website.   "We are seeing state leaders and more and more citizens recognize that loving and committed couples should not be legally kept apart," said Cruz. "We look forward to seeing that momentum to continue in 2014. "  Gov. Gary R. Herbert expressed disappointment at the ruling by Shelby, whom he called "an activist federal judge." Herbert said he was working with his legal counsel and the acting attorney general "to determine the best course to defend traditional marriage within the borders of Utah. "  A spokesman for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints said in a statement that it supports "traditional marriage," while teaching that everyone should be treated with respect. "This ruling by a district court will work its way through the judicial process," Eric Hawkins said.   "We continue to believe that voters in Utah did the right thing by providing clear direction in the state Constitution that marriage should be between a man and a woman and we are hopeful that this view will be validated by a higher court. "  The president of the National Organization for Marriage, Brian Brown, called the ruling "a travesty of justice. "  In a statement, he added, "This trend of vetoing the voters from the bench must be stopped. "  That view was not shared by Clifford Rosky, chairman of the board of Equality Utah. "We think it is a thoughtful and careful ruling that is based on the Supreme Court decision last summer and we expect that it will be upheld ultimately by the United States Supreme Court," he said.   By early Friday evening, Rosky told CNN he had signed as a witness to multiple marriages among same-sex couples.   Though the state has already filed a notice of appeal, the state's lawyers did not file a motion for a stay  in district court, which allowed the marriages to begin at once. "Why they didn't ask the district court for a stay is a mystery, to say the least," Rosky said.   "There are hundreds of people here -- it's past 5 o'clock and the clerk is not closing the door. "  Same-sex marriage is banned by constitutional amendment or state law in: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming.   But it is legal in 17 other U.S states and the District of Columbia: California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington.   Worldwide, 16 other countries (and parts of Mexico) have laws allowing same-sex marriage and domestic partnerships. Most of these are in Europe and South America.   Civil unions, which are legal in Colorado, grant couples most of the rights of state civil marriages, but provide none of the federal benefits of marriage, such as Social Security benefits.   These rights include spousal support, medical decision-making privileges, access to a partner's insurance, and hospital visitation rights.   Though the U.S. Supreme Court has signaled that it is reluctant to issue a national opinion on the matter, lower courts and states have not been so reluctant, said Carl Tobias, a professor of constitutional law at the University of Richmond.   "I'm just struck by how quickly this is all moving," he said. "It just seems like it's picking up steam in terms of challenges. "  He attributed the change to a greater acceptance of gays and lesbians, especially among young people. "They just don't see this as a great moral issue that needs to be something codified as a prohibition in the law," he said. "Everybody knows gay people -- either in their families or friends or workplaces -- so what's the big deal? "  President Bill Clinton signed the Defense of Marriage Act banning federal recognition of same-sex marriage and defining marriage as "a legal union between one man and one woman as husband and wife" in 1996.   Last June, the U.S. Supreme Court rejected parts of DOMA, in a 5-4 decision that dismissed an appeal over same-sex marriage on jurisdictional grounds and ruled same-sex spouses legally married in a state may receive federal benefits.   On Thursday, the New Mexico Supreme Court ruled unanimously to allow same-sex marriage statewide and ordered county clerks to begin issuing marriage licenses to qualified same-sex couples.
Since 9/11, jihadist terrorists have killed 25 people in the United States. Each one of those deaths is a tragedy, but none of these attacks were national catastrophes as 9/11 was.   While al Qaeda and its affiliates have failed to conduct any successful attacks in the United States since 9/11, they have sought to encourage action from militant American citizens, who might be more capable of carrying out terrorist operations in the States than foreign operatives given the stringent security measures now in place.   Unfortunately, this strategy of promoting homegrown extremism has demonstrated some successes, such as Maj. Nidal Hasan's killing of 13 people at the Fort Hood, Texas, military base in 2009 and the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings, which authorities have said were carried out by Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev.   All of these were inspired by the propaganda of Anwar al-Awlaki, the American cleric killed in a 2011 U.S. drone strike in Yemen after he took up an operational role in al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.   According to the New America Foundation's research, an astonishing quarter of the 247 jihadist extremists charged since 9/11 either possessed copies of al-Awlaki's propaganda materials, cited him as an influence or were in communication with him.   The influence of al-Awlaki and al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula's English-language magazine Inspire has persisted even after al-Awlaki's death.   Worrisomely, around 100 Americans have traveled to fight in Syria with opposition groups, including with ISIS and the al Qaeda-affiliated Nusra Front.   So far, nine Americans have been charged with attempting to support or supporting ISIS or Nusra, according to a count by New America.   In addition, at least two Americans have died fighting with these groups: Moner Mohammad Abu-Salha, who committed a suicide bombing in Syria for Nusra Front, and Douglas McCain, who died fighting with ISIS.   The difficulty al Qaeda and similar groups have had in inspiring Americans to conduct attacks at home is due to the strength of systemic security checks, such as the willingness of Muslim communities to report potential terrorist activity. A third of the extremists charged since 2001 were implicated by tips from family or local community members, according to an analysis by New America.   Of the 51 plots to conduct an attack inside the United States since 9/11, nearly half were initiated while the suspects were under surveillance by informants, according to a count by New America.   The role that the Muslim community has played as well as aggressive law enforcement efforts using informants have both helped to make the United States a hard target for militants.   Add to these factors other measures taken since 9/11; the day that al Qaeda's hijackers attacked the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, there were only 16 people on the U.S. no-fly list. Today, there are more than 40,000.   In 2001, there were 32 Joint Terrorism Task Force "fusion centers," where multiple law enforcement agencies work together to chase down leads and build terrorism cases. Now there are 103.   Before 9/11, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, National Counterterrorism Center, Transportation Security Administration, Northern Command and Cyber Command didn't exist. In 2014, all of these new institutions make it much harder for terrorists to operate in the United States.   The U.S. intelligence budget also grew dramatically after 9/11, with Congress giving the government substantial resources with which to improve its counterterrorism capabilities. In 2013, the United States allocated $72 billion to intelligence collection and other covert activities. Before 9/11, the budget was around a third of that figure: $26 billion.   In addition, greater public awareness of the danger posed by terrorism has also made the United States a much harder target. It was his fellow passengers who tackled Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the "underwear bomber," on Christmas Day 2009 as he tried to detonate a bomb on Northwest Flight 253 as it flew over Detroit.
I call this "antibiotic winter. "  To explain: In the early 1950's, scientists conducted experiments to determine whether our resident microbes -- the huge number of bacteria that live in and on our bodies, now called our "microbiome" -- help in fending off invading bacteria. They fed mice a species of a typical invader, disease-causing salmonella. It took about 100,000 organisms to infect half of the normal mice. But when they first gave mice an antibiotic, which kills both good and bad bacteria, and then several days later gave them salmonella, it took only three organisms to infect them. This isn't a 10 or 20% difference; it's  a 30,000-fold difference.   That was in mice, but what about humans? In 1985, Chicago faced a massive outbreak of salmonella. At least 160,000 people became ill and several died from drinking contaminated milk. The health department asked victims of the outbreak and unaffected persons, "Have you received antibiotics in the month prior to becoming ill?" People who said yes were five times more likely to become ill than those who drank the milk but hadn't recently received antibiotics.   People carry a small number of highly abundant bacterial species and a large number of much less common ones. For example, you may carry trillions of Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron in your colon and only a thousand cells, or fewer, belonging to many other species. We are not sure how many rare species any of us has. If you had only 50 cells of a particular type, it would be difficult to detect them against the background of trillions of others.   When you take a broad-spectrum antibiotic, which is the kind most commonly prescribed, it may be that rare microbes occasionally get wiped out entirely. And once the population hits zero, there is no bouncing back. For your body, that species is now extinct. My worry is that some of these critical residential organisms -- what I consider "contingency" species -- may disappear altogether.   Why might it matter? Those puny species may not be so inconsequential. Microbes multiply. Any small population of, say, 50 cells can explode into a billion or more in one week. The trigger for their massive bloom could be a food you've eaten for the first time, which only they have the enzymes to digest. In the presence of this food, the rare microbe goes into overdrive, doubling every 12 or 20 minutes, multiplying by a million percent or more.   This could be good for you because some of the energy captured by these digesting microbes might end up in your bloodstream. When food is in short supply, as has been the case for most of human existence, and people need to eat unfamiliar plants or animals, it is useful to have a repertoire of enzymes that help us process a wide variety of nutrients. The genes of our flexible partners, our resident microbes, provide those enzymes.   Now consider the consequences if one of your rare microbes -- an ancient one that has been dwelling in Homo sapiens for 200,000 years -- went extinct. One possibility is that it doesn't matter. Perhaps that microbe was a marginal player -- good riddance. Another possibility: It's a "contingency" organism,  useful -- crucial -- when we need it for protection.   When a new influenza epidemic arose in Mexico in 2009, people in California and Texas soon fell ill, and then flu appeared in New York a few days later. After a few weeks, this flu spread throughout the world. Considering the numbers of people infected, we were lucky that it was not a highly lethal strain.  Yet thousands of people all over the world did die. Even when a strain is not that virulent, when hundreds of millions of people are infected, deaths add up. And when the strain is worse, the deaths climb into the millions.   Our world has gotten smaller. We have much greater global access to one another -- at the very moment in our history when our ancient microbial defenses are degrading. This makes us vulnerable to microbial invaders and provides fuel for disease conflagrations, with consequences scarcely imaginable.   Plagues are inevitable wherever people congregate. With a global population of 7 billion, rising by 80 million annually, the question is not whether another big plague will come, but when it will happen, what will cause it, and who will be affected. In 1918-19, influenza killed tens of millions, in an era without airplanes and with much less mass transit to spread it. With a huge world population that is essentially contiguous, and with so many people with weakened defenses, we are vulnerable as never before.   I see many parallels between our changing climate and our changing microbiome. The modern epidemics -- asthma and allergic disorders, obesity, and metabolic disorders -- are not only diseases, they are external signs of change within.  But they also indicate a deeper imbalance, the loss of our reserves.   Our diverse microbes, with their millions of genes helping us resist disease, are the guerrilla warriors defending the home domain -- as long as we protect them. But recent studies suggest that otherwise normal people already have lost 15% to 40% of their microbial diversity and the genes that accompany it.   This is the greatest danger before us -- invaders causing an epidemic against which we are helpless.  Unless we change our ways, we do indeed face an "antibiotic winter. "  We must end the assault on our microbes, by cutting antibiotic use and also such elective practices as unnecessary cesarean sections that bypass the natural order of mothers passing on their bacteria to their babies. There are times when both of these are needed urgently, but we already know that we are overusing them.   Technology already provides important tools to improve doctors' judgments about when antibiotics are needed, but we must get them into the clinic. We also must develop new tools, like "narrow-spectrum" antibiotics that target only the invader and minimize collateral effects.   We must understand that every antibiotic course has a biological cost, and more precisely align possible benefit with the full costs. I predict that in the future we will routinely be giving children back their lost microbes, in early life to restore their patrimony and after the antibiotic courses that are truly necessary.   Just as we have abused marvelous inventions like freon and the internal combustion engine, so too we have abused our "wonder drugs." But the possible costs of these practices are our worst nightmare; we need to prepare, starting now.
"The card is not only a means of certifying your identity, but also a personal database repository and payment card, all in your pocket."   The card could also be used for voting in the future, while Chris Onyemenam, director general and CEO of the Nigerian Identity Management Commission (NIMC), said that citizens will have "the potential to use it as an international travel document. "  Earlier this week, finance minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said 3,000 people had received cards. In order to get the document, Nigerians have to register at one of the NIMC enrollment centers around the country and provide 10 fingerprints, a picture of their face and iris, as well as information about their age and place of birth. Once registered, the NIMC official issues an I.D. number and then the card.   Growth opportunity  Nigeria produces more oil than any other African nation, but the World Bank says only about 30% of the population have a bank account.  Given 170 million people live in the country, Mastercard claims to have spotted an opportunity for growth.   Research conducted by MasterCard's consultancy arm says that cash dependency in a country like Nigeria can cost up to 1.5% of Gross Domestic Product. Given Nigeria has recently recently re-calculated it's 2013 GDP to a figure of $488 billion, making it Africa's biggest economy, that's certainly an amount the government is keen to keep a hold of.   Card controversy   But not everyone is happy with this pocket-sized one-stop-shop. Human Rights Activist Shehu Sani attacked the scheme on Facebook:  While Eze Onyekpere, lead director at the non-governmental organisation Centre for Social Justice, said the collaboration was not appropriate. "There should be difference between everyday credit or payment cards and an identity card issued by a sovereign authority," he says. "Even if Mastercard was needed to ensure a good payment system, there is nothing that says it must be heavily embossed on the card. It could guarantee the card without necessarily getting this free advert from 170 million Nigerians. "  Onyekpere has also criticised the way the Nigerian government partnered with the international payments provider. "The choice of Mastercard did not undergo a competitive selection process," he claims. "It was clearly an abuse of Nigeria's public procurement process and the selection should have been open to all companies that can provide the service.   A MasterCard spokesperson denied the payments company was turning the I.D. card project into a branding exercise. In an emailed statement the company said "the brand mark is not MasterCard's corporate logo, nor is it an advertisement for the company. The MasterCard brand displayed on the card is what makes the electronic payment component of the eID card accepted as a means of payment."  NIMC spokesperson Umar Abdulhamid rejected any allegation of foul play in partnering with MasterCard. "It's a level playing field," he said In a phone interview. "Other payment providers have been invited to get involved, but were apprehensive. "  And Daniel Monehin, president of MasterCard's Sub Saharan Africa division, joined Abdulhamid in dismissing this claim. In a phone interview he said that "the collaboration went through all the highest levels of government."  Previous attempts  This is not the first time Nigerian authorities have tried to implement such a card.   The idea of a national identity card scheme for Nigeria was first initiated in 1978, according to the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. But successive governments and coups meant the idea did not become a reality.   More recently, progress on the provision of identity cards for Nigerians took shape in early 2003, when some 60,000 centers were set up to register citizens. While the approach to take photographs and fingerprints sought to avoid fraud, an article on the U.N. refugee agency's website reports that irregularities in the roll-out of the I.D. cards meant that by 2008 the government was planning a new card.   A month into this latest identity project there remains no fixed timetable for when the roll out of the initial 13 million cards will be completed.   Read more: Africa's oil and gas: Boom or hype?   Read more: In the driving seat of S. Africa's economy  More from Marketplace Africa
Earlier Tuesday, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon congratulated Libya's transitional leadership on the apparent success of that country's revolution, ushering in a post-Gadhafi era for the North African nation as part of the international body.   "For Libya, this is a historic day," said Ban, who directed that the country's new flag be presented alongside the U.N. flag amid a standing ovation from those in attendance.   The United Nations General Assembly overwhelmingly voted to accept the credentials of the country's new leadership after rebels last month all but ousted Libyan strongman Moammar Gadhafi after more than four decades in power.   "I am sure you saw your new flag this morning, flying so proudly outside this building," the U.N. chief said.   The rebuilding of Libya and the Palestinian quest for statehood are expected to be the dominant topics this week as world leaders converge on the United Nations in New York for the 66th annual session of the General Assembly.   On Tuesday, Ban met with Mustafa Abdul Jalil -- head of Libya's ruling National Transitional Council -- to discuss the deployment of a support mission to be run by British diplomat and U.N. envoy Ian Martin.   The mission is thought to largely center on post-conflict planning, with particular focus on security-building and electoral assistance.   But American participation, the U.N. chief says, is instrumental in supporting the new government, noting challenges facing transitional leadership as it confronts pockets of resistance and the specter of Gadhafi, who remains at large.   U.S. President Barack Obama vowed to continue to protect Libyan civilians for as long as they remained threatened by the former regime, pledging to reopen the American embassy in Tripoli later this week.   "Six months ago, as his tanks approached Benghazi, Gadhafi predicted that his opponents would be slaughtered like rats," said U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague. "But he had not counted on the courage of the Libyan people, the principled stand of the Arab League and the resolve of the international community. "  Hague said he sought to send to a clear message to the former dictator and his remaining supporters that "their time is up," adding that the unfreezing of Libyan assets will help pay for the country's critical services.   Tuesday's Libya summit at the U.N. General Assembly was billed as an event designed to give world leaders a chance to figure out ways to help Libya rebuild from the battle against their former leader.   The meeting was in stark contrast to two years ago, when Gadhafi gave a rambling General Assembly address where he floated conspiracy theories, urged probes into U.S. military activities and took aim at the structure of the Security Council itself.   Meanwhile, the international body also focused on what it described as an alarming increase in global desertification, and wrapped a two-day meeting on noncommunicable diseases, now the world's leading killer.   It is only the second time a health issue has been debated at a special meeting of the General Assembly, following the group's pledge to take on AIDS a decade ago.   Delegates unanimously approved a "political declaration" on Monday, addressing illnesses including cancer, cardiovascular disease, chronic lung diseases and diabetes in developing countries, which often struggle with limited budgets and overwhelmed health care systems.   Also on the plate of U.N. activities this week is an expected address from Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who will take the podium Thursday to address recent changes in the Middle East.   His visit marks the seventh time the Iranian president has traveled to New York since he took office in 2005.   Ahmadinejad told Iranian state media on Monday that the U.N. must meet the international community's "real demands," raising questions as to whether the Iranian leader will broach the issue of Palestinian statehood, a lightning-rod topic and the subject of much diplomatic wrangling.   The U.S. has pledged to block a Palestinian membership application should it reach the Security Council, but is likely eager to head-off a scenario that would involve an American veto -- a move widely seen as unpopular in the Middle East.   Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has, however, seemed largely undeterred.   In a speech Friday that appeared both an attempt to manage domestic expectations and push the statehood issue, the Palestinian leader told an audience in Ramallah, "We are going to the United Nations to attain full membership. "  He has said the Palestinian territories should be represented by their "natural borders" -- with Israel remaining within its 1967 boundaries, which would afford Palestinians the Gaza strip, East Jerusalem and the West Bank.   He called disputed territories inhabited by Israeli settlers "illegal. "  On Friday, the body will address the controversial bid.   Abbas is scheduled to speak, and has said after he gives that speech, he will deliver a formal membership application to the U.N. secretary-general.   Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who opposes the measure, is scheduled to speak later in the day and has called the move provocative and pushed for a return to the negotiating table.   The Palestinian territories currently have "observer" status, meaning delegates can speak in the General Assembly but not vote.   A "yes" vote in the General Assembly -- where only a majority vote would be needed -- could afford Palestinians with the status of "permanent observer," similar to the position the Vatican currently holds.   A vote in their favor would be all but assured, meaning they could pursue legal actions against Israel, though analysts suggest that the elevated status could prematurely raise expectations for change in the region.   Hamas, the Palestinian organization that controls Gaza, has warned Abbas against making the request, saying it would show a willingness to acknowledge and negotiate with Israel, which would "deprive the Palestinian people from their right to come back to their homeland. "  The five permanent members of the Security Council are the United States, China, France, Russia and the United Kingdom.   The General Assembly, the U.N.'s main policy-making body, has 193 member nations.   CNN's Joe Vaccarello and Mitra Mobasherat contributed to this report.
What we have now, after the initial panic when ISIS made its move into Iraq, are two distinct camps: Explorers suspending operations and producers battening down the hatches and producing as best they can. According to the Kurdish Regional Government, supplies up north are still above 300,000 barrels a day.   Tucked into the IEA's latest monthly report is one of today's harsher realities: ISIS has taken control of seven fields, which typically produce about 80 thousand barrels a day. Energy and security sources here in the region tell me that oil is starting to find its way onto the black market, offered at a heavy discount.   Beyond the fighting, other complex problems still exist that could easily tilt the balance in Iraq. In Baiji, near the country's center, 300,000 barrels of refining capacity is off-line after ISIS rebels fought for control, according to the Iraq Energy Institute's Luay al-Khatteeb.   Oil is being exported via pipeline from the Kurdish region through the Port of Ceyhan in Turkey.  Tankers have sailed, but Baghdad is blocking sales with an on-going dispute over who actually controls that oil.   Despite all that, Iraq continues to supply the market with an ample level of crude.  According to the IEA's monthly report, overall production is 3.1 million barrels a day, down slightly from the month before.  Exports are up again to 2.44 million and that is what the market is concentrating on.   But there is a price to pay for the violence in the north and political in-fighting in Baghdad. The country's original target of expanding capacity to over 4 million barrels a day will be missed, according to al- Khatteeb.   With this level of uncertainty, the international oil companies (IOCs) may tighten their purse strings, waiting to see if the U.S. intervention can help stabilize the country before committing more money for exploration and production.   The big bounty for Iraq and the energy majors remains the oil rich south around Basra which, despite initial security threats against international oil workers, is pumping and exporting crude at near record levels.   BP initially trimmed staff when ISIS began its march into Iraq, but at the end of July, CEO Bob Dudley went out of his way to assure investors production is back up to normal with plans for expansion.   "The Rumaila field is now the second largest producing field in the world at about 1.4 million barrels per day," said Dudley. "If you think about the map of Iraq, it is down in the bottom of the funnel, near the Kuwait border, in the desert, in an unpopulated area. "  Lukoil has put $4 billion into the West Qurna 2 field in the south -- one of the world's largest oil fields -- and despite initial delays is still producing 300,000 barrels a day without interruption.   What we have learned in the past two months of fighting, is another harsh reality: Money talks.   Iraq may have difficulty staying glued together as a country or even passing a petroleum law to govern revenue sharing, but securing production and distribution have been paramount. And that persistence earned the country $53 billion last month alone.   REA D MORE: Iraq's 'new reality' shakes global oil markets  READ MORE: Why does the U.S. intervene militarily in Iraq but not in Syria?
"She is a figure that has contributed much to cross-cultural communication," Deng Jianglei, director of the cartoon, "Princess Fragrant," told CNN. The animation is set to become a television series at the end of 2015, and a film the following year.   Deng's company, Shenzhen Qianheng Cultural Communication Company, won a tender to create the 3-D animation last year, as part of a campaign by Xinjiang authorities to promote social harmony among China's different ethnic groups and raise awareness of the folk customs of the Uyghurs.   During a visit to the province in June, Deng and his colleagues were inspired by the natural beauty and rich culture of Xinjiang -- a region the size of Iran that shares borders with eight countries.   "The cultures there and the folk arts are exquisite. But the place's economy is less developed. So we wanted ... to help them promote their cultures," he said.   But appealing to both Han and Uyghur audiences may prove a challenge.   Princess or sex slave?   Selecting a musician to compose the theme song, for example, took over a year, China's Global Times reports, because it was difficult to find a composer who was familiar with both Han and Uyghur traditions.   Then there are the alternative versions of the Uyghur girl's story.   Although the legend of Fragrant Concubine has become a symbol of national unity for many Chinese, modern Uyghur interpretations of the tale portray her as an imperial sex slave who was murdered by the emperor's mother after stubbornly rejecting the emperor's advances.   Deng said he wants the series to be entertaining while also fulfilling "political needs. "  "(The cartoon) is a re-understanding of the friendship between Han and Uyghurs, which is especially significant to the re-education of the children and teaching them to accept different cultures. "  His animation company, working in collaboration with the government of Kashgar, has plans to show the cartoon in China and abroad, especially in Islamic regions.   Xinjiang has a long history of ethnic unrest. Some Uyghurs have expressed resentment toward the Han Chinese in recent years over what they say is harsh treatment by security forces, discrimination and a lack of economic opportunities.   Muslim separatists have been held responsible for a series of recent deadly attacks, with Chinese authorities launching an anti-terror campaign in May. Measures to end the violence have ranged from executing convicted terrorists to banning beards and Islamic dress in some areas.   But authorities have not ignored the role of soft power.   "It is similar as fighting a war in the realm of ideology. If we don't pass on positive energy, the opposite side would occupy the battlefield," Sheng Jun, a deputy director of cultural industry office at the Xinjiang Bureau of Culture told The Global Times.   Finding common ground, however, was difficult even among the animators.   Some of the more conservative Xinjiang artists who were consulted in the making of the cartoon objected to the use of animal characters because of the negative connotations associated with some creatures like snakes according to Islamic traditions, and because Uyghur families rarely own pets, the Global Times reports.   "The difficulty is that you have to respect history and culture while catering to the market," Deng said.   When it came to the animals, Deng insisted they should stay. "It's all about compromise," he said.   Intern Linda Yan contributed to this report.
I knew nothing about it," he said in a studio appearance for a live call-in show hosted by New Jersey 101.5.   The fresh response came amid a new allegation from a former top adviser caught up in the scandal, David Wildstein, that "evidence exists" that Christie knew about the closures and resulting traffic gridlock over five days in Fort Lee in real time, which would, if true, contradict his account of events.   On CNN's "Piers Morgan Live" Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich said he believed Christie but thought the governor should sign a sworn statement backing up his claims.   "I take it him at his word but it would appear from the polls that a lot of folks don't," Sokolich said.   Why is this important?   Christie's recollection ultimately may be critical in answering why the bridge lanes overseen by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey were closed in the first place and who authorized it for sure -- and whether any laws were broken.   E-mails and political figures in New Jersey have suggested the gridlock was a bit of orchestrated political payback for the Fort Lee mayor, who did not endorse Christie for re-election last November.   A state legislative committee is investigating as is the Justice Department, which would be interested if there was any abuse of power. Both have subpoenaed Christie's office for documents, and he said his office is complying. Christie's office also has hired a private law firm to investigate.   And why is Wildstein important?   It has been suggested in the e-mails released by state legislative investigators in New Jersey that Wildstein, a top Christie appointee at the Port Authority, carried out the closures. He also has been subpoenaed, refused to answer questions from legislative investigators, and he's got a lawyer.   For his part, Christie has fired a top aide linked to what has metastasized into a political scandal coming on the heels of a successful re-election and prior to a possible White House bid. Others have left their jobs as the scandal unfolded, including Wildstein.   Former deputy chief of staff Bridget Ann Kelly, whose e-mail to Wildstein -- "Time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee" -- weeks before the gridlock occurred led to her firing by Christie in January, refused on Monday on constitutional grounds to comply with a state legislative subpoena to turn over documents, a source with knowledge of the matter told CNN's Chris Frates.   State lawmakers leading that investigation said they are reviewing the matter and "considering our legal options with respect to enforcing the subpoena. "  Christie, in the radio interview, repeated what he said at a January news conference -- challenged by Wildstein in a letter written by his lawyer to the Port Authority on Friday -- about the timeline around when he became aware of the traffic mess. He also denied having any knowledge of a suggested political motive.   Who's who in the bridge scandal  Christie blasts Wildstein  "The first time that this really came into my consciousness, as an issue" was when an e-mail from Port Authority Executive Director Pat Foye "was leaked to the media and reported on. "  Foye was the person, according to e-mails, who started asking questions about the lane closures and ordered them reopened.   That's when Christie said he asked his chief of staff and his chief counsel to "look into this and see what's going on here. "  He said any reference to the bridge situation prior to this wouldn't have meant anything to him because he wasn't clued into the fact that there was a problem.   Afterward, Christie said again that he was told the "Port Authority was engaged in a traffic study," which has now been called into serious question.   He also stressed that "nobody has said I knew anything about this before it happened, and I think that's the most important question. "  A question of evidence  Christie's appearance follows steps by his office over the weekend to strike in an unusually personal way against Wildstein, a one-time high school classmate of the governor in Livingston, N.J.  "Bottom line - David Wildstein will do and say anything to save David Wildstein," a letter released by the governor's office said in a statement.   On Monday, Christie's office also planned to send to friends and allies a list of tweets and stories aiming to put the focus on The New York Times' handling of the disclosure by Wildstein, according to CNN's Jake Tapper.   The Times broke the story, saying Wildstein "had the evidence to prove" Christie knew about the lane closures. The newspaper quickly revised its lead to simply reflect what the letter written by Wildstein's attorney actually said: that "evidence exists," not that Wildstein was in possession of it.   The letter never disclosed the evidence.   Chris Christie scandal: A primer  First on CNN: Mayor behind Christie allegations full of contradictions  The letter also didn't suggest that Christie had knowledge of what his people might have been up to -- political or otherwise.   Read Wildstein's letter  The scandal and another allegation of strong-arm political tactics by Christie administration officials over Superstorm Sandy aid have generated a wave of negative political fallout for a governor overwhelmingly re-elected in November and considered a top-tier Republican presidential hopeful in 2016.   Christie's swagger and straight-shooting style had him riding high in the polls as late as December.   He topped other potential GOP 2016 White House hopefuls in various surveys. But those numbers have faded as the scandal has intensified, according to a new CNN/ORC International survey.   Christie trails Hillary Clinton by 16 percentage points in a hypothetical presidential match-up, a turnaround from December when he was up by 2 points.   Opinion: Are clouds gathering for Christie?   Christie to appear at CPAC  CNN's Cassie Spodak, Paul Steinhauser, and Chris Frates contributed to this report.
He took the reins in 2000 from Gates, whom he became friends with at Harvard University in the 1970s. Ballmer earned a degree in mathematics and economics.   Gates, of course, didn't graduate. But he seemed to do OK without a degree.   Ballmer's years leading Microsoft were sometimes turbulent ...   When Ballmer took over as CEO, Microsoft was the most valuable company in the world. But the company went on to lose more than half of its market value over the course of a decade.   Investors have been critical of Ballmer for failing to anticipate the mobile computing revolution.   ... but there were also great times.   During Ballmer's tenure,Windows 7 was the fastest-selling operating system of all time, and Microsoft's cloud and enterprise businesses have stayed strong over the past decade.   According to Microsoft, the company tripled its revenue and doubled profits under Ballmer's leadership.   He retired in February and has been spotted at Clippers games since.   He's really animated.   Just watch how he takes the stage for a corporate presentation.   "Come on! Get up!" Ballmer screamed at one gathering as he danced and leaped across the floor. "Whoooooo! Come on! Give it up for me! "  By the time he took the podium, he barely had enough breath to say, "I love this company!"   So much so that he's ripped his vocal cords.   Perhaps it's not surprising, then, that Ballmer has damaged his voice during his public displays of affection (for Microsoft).   According to The New York Times, Ballmer once shouted ''Windows! Windows!'' so furiously at a sales meeting in Japan that he ripped his vocal cords, requiring surgery.   He's from Motown but has a soft spot for LA.   Ballmer's dad, Fred Ballmer, was a manager at Ford Motor Co. in Detroit. The son excelled academically there and became valedictorian of his high school class.   But he has reason to cheer for the Clippers.   "I love basketball. And I intend to do everything in my power to ensure that the Clippers continue to win -- and win big -- in Los Angeles," Ballmer said in a statement after making his offer.   "LA is one of the world's great cities -- a city that embraces inclusiveness, in exactly the same way that the NBA and I embrace inclusiveness. "  Ballmer wasn't the only bigwig eyeing the Clippers.   A group that included media moguls David Geffen and Oprah Winfrey also made a bid of $1.6 billion for the Clippers, a source told CNN.   This isn't his first time trying to buy an NBA team.   Ballmer's purchase of the Clippers would still have to be approved by 75% of the NBA's 30 owners.   Last year, the owners denied the sale of the Sacramento Kings to a group that included Ballmer. That sale would have resulted in the Kings moving to Seattle, and the league's relocation committee recommended keeping the team in Sacramento.   But with all the talk about changing ownership of the Clippers, Ballmer's fate this time may turn out differently.   Sources: Donald Sterling found to be mentally incapacitated  CNN's Brian Todd and CNNMoney's David Goldman and contributed to this report.
Alec Gagneux was handing out flyers and speaking softly to interested passers-by.   Of all the criticisms leveled at Davos, its elite nature is the biggest gripe. Like other such pow-wows of the powerful, the lack of access to this minute sphere of massive influence has in past years stirred up visible dissent around the venue itself.   At the height of the Occupy movement in 2012, protesters even camped in igloos near the heavily fortified conference center.   Davos this year was oddly quiet though. Like the bitter cold that can often grip this mountain resort in January, protests were noticeable by their relative absence. There was a small group from Ukraine attempting to draw attention to their predicament on Friday, but little to really catch the eyes of the delegates safely cocooned behind the venue's ring of security.   Gagneux's disparate group had been gathered via the internet, but while they had made it to Davos they were still a long way from the action. "This is the only thing that was possible," Gagneux said. "It is absolutely taboo to go further towards the center where the people ...are meeting from the World Economic Forum. "  I asked him why he and his fellow protestors were here. Just like the delegates at the other end of the street, growth and inequality were on his mind too. "The 2015 goal is to halve extreme poverty," he told me, "but we don't talk about (the fact) that we have to halve extreme riches as well."   Gagneux's primary concern was for the long term impact of growth. The flyers he handed out quoted the economist Kenneth Boulding: "Anyone who believes exponential growth can go on forever in a finite world is either a madman or an economist. "  "The planet is limited," Gagneux told me. "In 30 years or in 70 years we have four times more cars, pollution, resources that are exploited, and future generations' family will have nothing."   He had been at Davos the entire week, and had been coming to the town for the past 12 years. "This evening I will make another gathering," he told me.   He planned to make what he called a "thought stone" representing WEF organizer Klaus Schwab. "Mr Schwab (is) a very important person in Davos, but actually we are all the same, including the animals and the plants," he said.   Why had Gagneux left his protest until the end of the week, and not staged it while the Forum was in full swing, I asked. "Most of the people still have to work during the weekdays, so Saturday is the easiest way for people (who are not from) Davos to come here. "  The global economy may be getting back on track, but even protesters need to pay the bills.   READ MORE:  How does your salary compare globally?   Quest: Why Davos must change to matter  Will global elite listen to Pope of the poor?
"A lot of my friends say, 'Why do you like surfing? Surfing is dangerous.' It's not dangerous for me. It's very fun," Rahayu says.   "Indonesian girls are scared of getting dark skin and don't want to go surfing. And I'm the luckiest one, I love the beach. "  Born in Seminyak, a coastal town in southern Bali that has been absorbed by the major tourist resort of Kuta, Rahayu has lived by the sea all her life.   "So many Australians come and act like bad tourists and make everything dirty," she told Surfing Life website last month. "But no matter what I would never leave Bali, because I can surf amazing waves all-year-round and you can't do that anywhere else. "  Her dad was a renowned local surfer, but he wasn't so keen when she said she wanted to follow in his footsteps.   So the 12-year-old went behind his back and learned from her uncle instead. Two years later, she made a name for herself at a local talent contest and earned a sponsorship deal.   The middle of three sisters, Rahayu says surfing has given her an identity.   Unlike her father, who had to give up the sport to support the family, she has been able to combine competing with her university studies thanks to funding from Rip Curl -- one of surfing's major brands.   "I feel so lucky. No-one from Bali can surf. I don't want to be like any other girls," she says. "I feel great because I can do something different. Everything in my life now is about surfing. "  Rahayu's major breakthrough came when she won a bronze medal for Indonesia at the 2008 Asian Beach Games, which were held in Bali.   "I met the president, had an interview with him and we talked a lot," she recalls.   "It was really cool. And my mom and my dad were proud of me, and my name was in every newspaper. "  The silver medal winner that year was Yasniar Gea. From the island of Nias, off the coast of Sumatra, she has gone on to become the most successful female Indonesian surfer.   Rahayu competes against Gea on the Asian Surfing Tour, but says her biggest inspiration comes from women riding on the world stage -- such as leading Australians Stephanie Gilmore and Sally Fitzgibbons, and Hawaii's Carissa Moore.   Joining them is still a pipe dream; she acknowledges she has yet to pay her dues on the Asian circuit.   "I want to win this tour. I want to focus on that -- it's my dream," Rahayu says.   "I'm not going to Europe yet, but I will. And I want to go to Australia, maybe next year. "  But wherever she ends up, there's no place like home -- where already she's inspiring young girls to take up surfing.   "It feels so amazing, because now young girls are surfing and then taking pictures with a hashtag, and then just following me," she says.   "It's really good to get more girls surfing in Indonesia. I'm just trying to keep encouraging everyone to get in the water and enjoy life. "
There, Haleigh began a regimen of cannabis oil: four times a day and once at night.   By summer, she was down to just a handful of seizures a day. In less than three months, doctors were able to wean her off Depakote, a powerful medication that had been damaging her liver.   Haleigh had never been able to walk or talk. But freed from seizures in Colorado, "She said 'Mama' for the first time," Cox said.  "She's playing with puzzles; she's walking. She's almost being a normal child. "  Despite all the good news, Cox is living in limbo. Her husband, a paramedic, couldn't afford to leave his job and pension; he still lives and works in Forsyth, Georgia. The family is relying on charity to keep their Colorado apartment for the next few months; beyond that, the future is uncertain.   A bill being introduced Monday in the U.S. House of Representatives could be Cox's ticket home. The three-page bill would amend the Controlled Substances Act -- the federal law that criminalizes marijuana -- to exempt plants with an extremely low percentage of THC, the chemical that makes users high.   Gupta: Why I changed my mind on weed  If passed, it would be the first time that federal law allows any medical marijuana use.   "No one should face a choice of having their child suffer or moving to Colorado and splitting up their family," said Rep. Scott Perry, R-Pennsylvania, the bill's sponsor. "We live in America, and if there's something that would make my child better, and they can't get it because of the government, that's not right. "  The bill will land in a Congress that may be open to change. Across the country, highly sympathetic patients and a nonintoxicating product have proved a popular mix. This year alone, 11 states have passed legislation loosening regulation of cannabis strains with high cannabidiol and/or minimal THC content.   In this atmosphere, Perry says that once members and their staffs are brought up to speed, he expects the bill to attract "overwhelming" support.   "It wouldn't be surprising if we see broad support for this proposal," agreed Mason Tvert, communications director at the Marijuana Policy Project, which advocates for marijuana and medical marijuana legalization. "If this bill gets support, it will demonstrate that there is recognition of marijuana's medical benefits. "  Dubbed the Charlotte's Web Medical Hemp Act of 2014, the bill is named after Charlotte Figi, a young Colorado girl whose parents have campaigned nationwide for easier access to medical marijuana after successfully controlling their daughter's seizures with cannabis oil. Since her story became known, a growing number of parents have flocked to Colorado, hoping for similar success.   The Charlotte's Web cannabis strain, developed by the Realm of Caring nonprofit organization in Colorado Springs, is in high demand, in part because of the attention it's received in the media. Many families wait months for a batch to be grown and processed into cannabis oil. Perry's bill, however, would apply to any cannabis strain with a THC content of less than 0.3%.   Charlotte's Web and similar strains not only have minimal THC, they have high levels of cannabidiol, another chemical. A growing body of anecdotal evidence suggests that cannabidiol can effectively control seizures, though there are no published studies to support its use.   It's easy to find critics who say parents should follow a more traditional route.   "There is no evidence for marijuana as a treatment for seizures," Rep. John Fleming, R-Louisiana, a physician, claimed during a congressional hearing last month. "We hear anecdotal stories, and that's how myths come about. "  Fleming and others point out that a pharmaceutical version of cannabidiol oil, called Epidiolex, is being tested in clinical trials. But many children aren't able to get into the trials. Haleigh Cox is disqualified because she has type-1 diabetes. Others aren't willing to wait several months to be enrolled.   "With Epidiolex, there just aren't enough seats at the table," said Mark Knecht, a father from Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania, whose story helped inspire Perry's bill.   His daughter Anna, 11, has epilepsy and suffers anywhere from a handful of seizures a day to more than 100, despite her four anti-convulsant medications. Knecht, the chief financial officer of a large Christian medical nonprofit, says Anna has been evaluated at several top hospitals but couldn't land a spot in the Epidiolex trial.   Twenty-three states and the District of Columbia have laws on the books allowing medical marijuana for a variety of conditions. But even as states rewrite their regulations, federal law remains the same: Marijuana is illegal to grow, sell or use for any purpose. Under the 1970 Controlled Substances Act, marijuana is listed on Schedule 1, meaning it has "no currently accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse." To backers of reform, the Catch-22 is familiar: Marijuana is restricted in large part because there is little research to support medical uses; research is difficult to conduct because of tight restrictions.   A series of memos from the Justice Department has said that arresting individual medical marijuana users is not a priority, and a 2013 memo added that federal prosecutors should not target large commercial operations except on a case-by-case basis. But most observers say that shipping or transporting the drug across state lines ups the ante.   "For families like us, the biggest issue is the federal issue. You can't take it across state lines," Knecht explained.   His family still lives in Mechanicsburg. But after seeing CNN's medical marijuana documentary last year, Anna and her mother, Deb, established residency in Colorado, where they obtained a medical marijuana card that let them place an order for a batch cannabis oil, in hopes it will control Anna's seizures. If Perry's bill becomes law, Knecht says, "Realm of Caring could just put it in a FedEx package. "  The Food and Drug Administration is conducting a review of scientific evidence to determine whether marijuana warrants looser treatment, but a spokeswoman says there's no set date to complete the analysis. A review in 2011 ended with the Drug Enforcement Administration leaving marijuana's status unaltered.   But certain actions in Congress give Perry and his supporters hope.   This month, the House passed a bill allowing banks to handle cash proceeds from dispensaries and other legal marijuana businesses.   The most recent Farm Bill allows industrial hemp -- a strain of cannabis without THC -- to be grown for academic or research purposes. That didn't stop the Drug Enforcement Administration from seizing a shipment of hemp seeds bound for the University of Kentucky this spring. In response, the Senate Appropriations Committee, with support from Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky,  passed an amendment blocking DEA funds for anti-hemp enforcement.   In May, the House passed a measure blocking money for DEA raids on marijuana dispensaries that are legal under state law.   And just last week, Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky took it a step further, introducing an amendment to the Jobs Bill that would forbid federal prosecution of doctors and patients whose actions are legal under state medical marijuana laws.   "If states allow doctors to prescribe medical marijuana, and people are in good faith prescribing medical marijuana, we want to make sure it's OK and that the federal government doesn't come in and prosecute somebody ," said Brian Darling, Paul's communications director.   The amendment seems likely to die amidst wrangling over the Jobs Bill, but Darling says his boss plans to move forward on a standalone measure.   Too many people have been sentenced to long prison terms for possession of marijuana, Darling says. "The War on Drugs has gone overboard. "  Knecht doesn't want to uproot his family to move to Colorado. But he says his hand may be forced. "We're taking this situation one day at a time. "  That's where Janea Cox was a few months ago. She hadn't heard about Perry's bill until she got a call from a reporter but says she understands where the Pennsylvania families are coming from. She's angry at home-state lawmakers who failed to push through Georgia's cannabidiol oil bill this spring.   "I lived in Georgia for 17 years," she said, "but here in Colorado, I met my child for the first time, at the age of 5. "   Medical marijuana research stalls after Arizona professor is let go
Finally, word came from Green on Wednesday evening that every child that had been stuck was on a bus and headed home.   That included the 2,000 Fulton County Schools students and 400 Atlanta Public Schools kids who had stayed at their schools overnight.   Facing critics who ask how fewer than 3 inches of snow could cripple the city, especially after it tangled with another debilitating storm in 2011, Mayor Kasim Reed assured Atlantans the city was working to open roads and asked them to stay at home.   "What I want to say to them is hold off on trying to get to them. What I can assure (you) is they are safe," he said. "The safest place for them was in the school system. ... I know it is very tough. "  There were uplifting stories amid the chaos, however, as the city schools' Twitter feed and a specially created Facebook page, SnowedOutAtlanta, which had more than 52,000 members as of Wednesday night, showed a steady stream of gratitude alongside the messages of frustration.   At E. Rivers Elementary School, about 150 students and teachers spent the night on gym mats, according to CNN affiliate WSB. They watched movies, ate a warm meal Tuesday night and were served French toast for breakfast, the station reported.   Was Atlanta asleep at the wheel?   One father, who identified himself only as Mark, said he walked 6 miles to spend the night with his 5-year-old daughter, Elizabeth. He said it put his mind at ease to see how the school staff was taking care of the youngsters.   "It was fantastic. All the students seemed like they were having a great time," he told WSB. "It looked like a very large sleepover party."   Added young Elizabeth, "We got to watch four or five movies. "  Heartwarming stories were heavily outnumbered by those from worried parents who had to spend the night without their children.   Corliss Collins, for instance, said she spoke to her granddaughter, one of about 200 students who spent the night at New Manchester High School in Douglasville, west of Atlanta, around 8 a.m. The granddaughter ate dinner and breakfast there, but told her grandmother that school officials were asking parents to pick up their children because the cafeteria had run out of food, Collins said.   Principal Constance Craft told CNN there was no truth to reports the school had no food.   "We are trying to get teachers who have been here since early morning yesterday home to their families. Our manpower is exhausted, and our children are ready to be home," she said in an e-mail.   Craft later added that the National Guard troops who helped escort the students home were "wonderful." All students had been sent home by lunchtime Wednesday, she said.   In West Atlanta, about 60 students from Riverwood International Charter School remained at a Kroger supermarket Wednesday morning after being transported there from their buses, which were stuck on I-285, said store employee Kim Bradley. The store provided food for them, she said.   About 90 high school students were initially taken there overnight in ambulances, with Highway Emergency Road Operators clearing a path, the state Department of Transportation said. The four buses were evacuated about 6 a.m. after being stuck in ice and traffic all night, the department said.   A total of 51 schoolbuses "needed support" because of the snow and ice, said Matthew Kallmyer, director of Atlanta-Fulton County Emergency Management Agency.   Other reports from Georgia and Alabama include:  -- Eight students from Marietta City Schools, northwest of Atlanta, spent the night in the school bus depot, and 669 students spent the night at eight schools in the system, said spokesman Thomas Algarin. The system was working to get them all home, he said Wednesday morning.   "Our schools were prepared for this," Algarin said, adding that Marietta High School's culinary team a "terrific gourmet meal last night. "  -- Schools in Cherokee County, Georgia, north of Atlanta, reported 150 students remained at 11 schools as of Wednesday morning. The number had dwindled to 10 as of 12:15 p.m. ET.   "Students are being kept safe, warm and fed, and staff are doing their best to keep them entertained with movies, games, books and other activities," spokeswoman Barbara Jacoby said in a statement.   -- In Georgia's Paulding and Douglas counties, west of Atlanta, schools reported about 1,800 collective students were sheltered at county schools, CNN affiliate WXIA reported. In Douglas County, the schools offered shelter to people had gotten stuck on the roads or walked to the schools, the station reported.   -- In Hoover, Alabama, one bus with 61 children was stuck until 6 a.m. ET, but the kids were safe, said spokesman Jason Gaston, and another stranded bus had its 21 occupants moved to a local children's hospital.   About 4,000 students and 350 adults -- including some community members who couldn't make it home -- were sheltered in Hoover schools Wednesday morning, Gaston said, adding that the cafeteria was well stocked and the schools were prepared to host those in need until the roads cleared. Students were watching movies and playing video games, he said.   iReporter Monica Cantwell said she spent the night in her office at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, and her 13-year-old daughter was stuck at her middle school in Hoover.   The school separated the kids by gender and put them into small groups at bedtime. The kids were playing games and watching videos in the gym and watching videos, she said, and her daughter had texted her to say was bored and none too thrilled to be spending the night on campus.   -- As of 8 a.m., at least 1,400 students spent the night in Birmingham, Alabama-area schools, and none spent the night on buses because they were either shuttled back to school or picked up by parents, said Jefferson County Emergency Management officer Bob Ammons.   Steve Smith, associate superintendent of Atlanta Public Schools, told CNN that roughly 1 million people attempted to go home Tuesday, gnarling traffic on Atlanta's roads and highways.   "The storm was much more intense than anyone knew, and even with our efforts of early dismissal, we still ran into the challenge of having the gridlock," he said.   Smith declined to say when the students would be home but said they'd be reunited with their parents as soon as conditions allowed it.   Could the city have handled the situation better? Sure, he said.   "There's always room for improvement, but we're just appreciative of our parents who have been understanding and patient with us, and our bus drivers have really been the heroes in this situation. They've made some real sacrifices," he said. "Our staff with students as well have made sacrifices. So  our principals and staff, they've worked with us and have been very cooperative. "  Birmingham Mayor William Bell, too, said his city was expecting a "light dusting," and by the time they realized the severity of the wintry weather, "it was too late. "  "All of the businesses and schools began to let out. It clogged up our interstate system, which then led to a clogging of the side roads and many people became stranded," he said. "We have had to scurry to try to play catch up and all of our people working in the public works department, our public safety units within the fire and the police department, they've all been out overnight to try to deal with the stranded motorists."   Opinion: Stranded in Atlanta
Google reported $16.86 billion in revenues for the last quarter of 2013 alone. One way it makes money from Gmail is by automatically scanning and indexing messages and using the data it mines to show relevant ads to its users.   "The basic premise of Gmail is, we'll give you a robust e-mail service and in exchange we want to display ads alongside our e-mail and we're scanning your e-mail to decide what ads are most relevant," said Eric Goldman, a professor at the Santa Clara University School of Law.   Scanning and ads  Gmail looks for keywords that identify topics of discussion based on things such as frequency and context, then matches the e-mail up with related ads. A conversation thread about meeting up at a spinning class, for example, might trigger an ad for a weight-loss product.   Data gathered through e-mail scanning can also be used to create user profiles for future ad targeting.   What many consumers don't consider is that companies such as Google can create a comprehensive profile of each user based on information from different products such as search, maps, e-mail and Google+, its social network.   "Nothing in life is free, and as a result it is important for people to understand what value they bring to a free service of any kind," said Behnam Dayanim, a partner at the law firm Paul Hastings LLP in Washington.   When people send and receive messages using a free e-mail service, they are sharing details about their interests, who their connections are and what their finances look like. That information might seem mundane on the surface, but when extracted and organized, it's incredibly valuable to marketers and advertisers.   All the major e-mail providers, including Microsoft Outlook and Yahoo, benefit one way or another from offering a free service. The provider might serve up general or targeted ads, generate a user base for marketing other services, or just use the e-mail service to build brand recognition.   And while Gmail may have popularized it, targeted ads based on user data has become the primary business model for many tech companies. It's how social media companies such as Facebook and search engines such as Bing make money as well as a huge number of apps that scrape contact and location information from users. It's also led to a number of similar privacy lawsuits against other companies, including LinkedIn, Yahoo and Facebook.   Any company that collects personal information has to advise its customers what it is doing with their information and comply with any relevant privacy laws, Dayanim said. These are usually laid out in the lengthy terms and conditions and privacy policies that customers barely skim before hitting "agree. "  However, many of the details about how exactly Google's program works have been kept confidential. And critics say the service doesn't adequately disclose what it is doing with customers' information.   Legal action  When Gmail made its debut in 2004, it was upfront about the fact that it would show contextual ads targeted to match the topic of e-mail threads. People still lined up to be accepted as early beta users of the service because it was slickly designed, included ample amounts of storage, and was excellent at filtering out spam. And it didn't cost anything to sign up.   One problem is that not all the people affected have agreed to Google's privacy policy. One group of plaintiffs in a recent class-action lawsuit were non-Gmail users who sent messages to Gmail accounts. Google responded that non-Gmail customers had no expectations of privacy when sending e-mails to people who did use the service.   Google has defended its e-mail scanning program by pointing out that it's automated and handled by computers picking out keywords. Google's employees aren't personally reading through e-mails for the latest lovers' spat.   Google also says the scans are necessary to cut down on malicious e-mails and spam, and for features such as Priority Inbox and the tabbed view that filters e-mails into different categories.   A federal judge dealt a blow to the case this month, ruling it couldn't proceed as a class-action lawsuit because the different groups weren't cohesive enough. A class-action lawsuit could have cost Google trillions of dollars in damages.   A changing landscape  When Gmail debuted in 2004, the rules for collecting user information were looser. But the privacy landscape has changed drastically over the past 10 years.   Several U.S. states have passed laws that restrict the use of personal information, the Federal Trade Commission has been more active pursuing privacy violations, and the industry has adopted best practices about what's acceptable.   One thing that hasn't changed is the federal law with the biggest impact on how and when companies can share data with third parties. The Electronics Communication Privacy Act is a dusty piece of legislation passed in 1986, long before the era of cloud-based e-mail. Many legislators and technology companies (including Google) have lobbied to have the law updated to reflect the times.   Meanwhile, consumers must increasingly weigh the value of using a free e-mail service such as Gmail against their personal privacy.
P!nk featuring Nate Ruess "Locked Out of Heaven" -- Bruno Mars "Roar" -- Katy Perry "Royals" -- Lorde -- WINNER "Same Love" -- Macklemore & Ryan Lewis  Best new artist James Blake Kendrick Lamar Macklemore & Ryan Lewis -- WINNER Kacey Musgraves Ed Sheeran  Best pop solo performance Sara Bareilles -- "Brave" Lorde -- "Royals" -- WINNER Bruno Mars -- "When I Was Your Man" Katy Perry -- "Roar" Justin Timberlake -- "Mirrors"  Best pop duo/group performance Daft Punk featuring Pharrell Williams and Nile Rodgers -- "Get Lucky" -- WINNER P!nk featuring Nate Ruess -- "Just Give Me a Reason" Rihanna featuring Mikky Ekko -- "Stay" Robin Thicke featuring T.I. and Pharrell -- "Blurred Lines" Justin Timberlake and Jay Z -- "Suit & Tie"  Best pop instrumental album Herb Alpert -- "Steppin' Out" -- WINNER Boney James -- "The Beat" Earl Klugh -- "Handpicked" Dave Koz, Gerald Albright, Mindi Abair and Richard Elliot -- "Summer Horns" Jeff Lorber Fusion -- "Hacienda"  Best pop vocal album Lana Del Rey -- "Paradise" Lorde -- "Pure Heroine" Bruno Mars -- "Unorthodox Jukebox" -- WINNER Robin Thicke -- "Blurred Lines" Justin Timberlake -- "The 20/20 Experience -- The Complete Experience"  Best dance recording "Need U (100%)" -- Duke Dumont featuring A*M*E & MNEK "Sweet Nothing" -- Calvin Harris featuring Florence Welch "Atmosphere" -- Kaskade "The is What it Feels Like" -- Armin Van Buuren featuring Trevor Guthrie "Clarity" -- Zedd featuring Foxes -- WINNER  Best dance/electronica album "Random Access Memories" -- Daft Punk -- WINNER "Settle" -- Disclosure "18 Months" -- Calvin Harris "Atmosphere" -- Kaskade "A Color Map of the Sun" -- Pretty Lights  Best traditional pop vocal album "Viva Duets" -- Tony Bennett and various artists "To Be Loved" -- Michael Bubl -- WINNER "The Standards" -- Gloria Estefan "Cee Lo's Magic Moment" -- Cee Lo Green "Now" -- Dionne Warwick  Best rock performance Alabama Shakes -- "Always Alright" David Bowie -- "The Stars (Are Out Tonight)" Imagine Dragons -- "Radioactive" -- WINNER Led Zeppelin -- "Kashmir" Queens of the Stone Age -- "My God is the Sun" Jack White -- "I'm Shakin' "  Best metal performances Anthrax -- "T.N.T." Black Sabbath -- "God is Dead?" -- WINNER Dream Theater -- "The Enemy Inside" Killswitch Engage -- "In Due Time" Volbeat featuring King Diamond -- "Room 24"  Best rock song "Ain't Messin' 'Round" -- Gary Clark Jr. "Cut Me Some Slack" -- Paul McCartney, Dave Grohl, Krist Novoselic, Pat Smear -- WINNER "Doom and Gloom" -- The Rolling Stones "God Is Dead?" -- Black Sabbath "Panic Station" -- Muse  Best rock album Black Sabbath -- "13" David Bowie -- "The Next Day" Kings of Leon -- "Mechanical Bull" Led Zeppelin -- "Celebration Day" -- WINNER Queens of the Stone Age -- "... Like Clockwork" Neil Young with Crazy Horse -- "Psychedelic Pill"  Best alternative music album Neko Case -- "The Worse Things Get, The Harder I Fight, The Harder I Fight, The More I Love You" The National -- "Trouble Will Find Me" Nine Inch Nails -- "Hesitation Marks" Tame Impala -- "Lonerism" Vampire Weekend -- "Modern Vampires of the City" -- WINNER  Best R&B performance Tamar Braxton -- "Love and War" Anthony Hamilton -- "Best of Me" Hiatus Kaiytoe featuring Q-Tip -- "Nakamarra" Miguel featuring Kendrick Lamar -- "How Many Drinks?" Snarky Puppy with Lala Hathaway -- "Something" -- WINNER  Best traditional R&B performance Gary Clark Jr. -- "Please Come Home" -- WINNER Fantasia -- "Get It Right" Maysa -- "Quiet Fire" Gregory Porter -- "Hey Laura" Ryan Shaw -- "Yesterday"  Best R&B song "Best of Me" -- Anthony Hamilton "Love and War" -- Tamar Braxton "Only One" -- PJ Morton featuring Stevie Wonder "Pusher Love Girl" -- Justin Timberlake -- WINNER "Without Me" -- Fantasia featuring Kelly Rowland and Missy Elliott  Best urban contemporary album Tamar Braxton -- "Love and War" Fantasia -- "Side Effects of You" Salaam Remi -- "One: In the Chamber" Rihanna -- "Unapologetic" -- WINNER Mack Wilds -- "New York: A Love Story"  Best R&B album Faith Evans -- "R&B Divas" Alicia Keys -- "Girl on Fire" -- WINNER John Legend -- "Love in the Future" Chrisette Michele -- "Better" TGT -- "Three Kings"  Best rap performance Drake -- "Started From the Bottom" Eminem -- "Berserk" Jay Z -- "Tom Ford" Kendrick Lamar -- "Swimming Pools (Drank)" Macklemore & Ryan Lewis featuring Wanz -- "Thrift Shop" -- WINNER  Best rap/sung collaboration   J. Cole featuring Miguel -- "Power Trip" Jay Z featuring Beyonc -- "Part II (On the Run)" Jay Z featuring Justin Timberlake -- "Holy Grail" -- WINNER Kendrick Lamar featuring Mary J. Blige -- "Now or Never" Wiz Khalifa featuring the Weeknd -- "Remember You"  Best rap song "F***in' Problems" -- A$AP Rocky featuring Drake, 2 Chainz and Kendrick Lamar "Holy Grail" -- Jay Z featuring Justin Timberlake "New Slaves" -- Kanye West "Started From the Bottom" -- Drake "Thrift Shop" -- Macklemore & Ryan Lewis -- WINNER  Best rap album Drake -- "Nothing Was the Same" Jay Z -- "Magna Carta ... Holy Grail" Kendrick Lamar -- "Good Kid, M.A.A.D City"  Macklemore & Ryan Lewis -- "The Heist" -- WINNER Kanye West -- "Yeezus"  Best country solo performance Lee Brice -- "I Drive Your Truck" Hunter Hayes -- "I Want Crazy" Miranda Lambert -- "Mama's Broken Heart" Darius Rucker -- "Wagon Wheel" -- WINNER Blake Shelton -- "Mine Would Be You"  Best country duo/group performance The Civil Wars -- "From This Valley" -- WINNER Kelly Clarkson featuring Vince Gill -- "Don't Rush" Little Big Town -- "Your Side of the Bed" Tim McGraw, Taylor Swift and Keith Urban -- "Highway Don't Care" Kenny Rogers With Dolly Parton -- "You Can't Make Old Friends"  Best country song "Begin Again" -- Taylor Swift "I Drive Your Truck" -- Lee Brice "Mama's Broken Heart" -- Miranda Lambert "Merry Go 'Round" -- Kacey Musgraves -- WINNER "Mine Would Be You" -- Blake Shelton  Best country album Jason Aldean -- "Night Train" Tim McGraw -- "Two Lanes of Freedom" Kacey Musgraves -- "Same Trailer Different Park" -- WINNER Blake Shelton -- "Based on a True Story" Taylor Swift -- "Red"  Best Latin pop album Frankie J -- "Faith, Hope y Amor" Ricardo Montaner -- "Viajero Frecuente" Draco Rosa -- "Vida" -- WINNER Aleks Syntek -- "Syntek" Tommy Torres -- "12 Historias"  Best Latin rock, urban or alternative album Caf Tacvba -- "El Objeto Antes Llamado Disco" El Tri -- "Ojo Por Ojo" Illya Kuryaki and the Valderramas -- "Chances" La Santa Cecilia -- "Treinta Dias" -- WINNER Los Amigos Invisibles -- "Repeat After Me"  Producer of the year, nonclassical Rob Cavallo Dr. Luke Ariel Rechtshaid Jeff Tweedy Pharrell Williams -- WINNER  Best compilation soundtrack for visual media "Django Unchained" "The Great Gatsby" (deluxe edition)  "Les Miserables" (deluxe edition "Muscle Shoals" "Sound City: Real to Reel" -- WINNER  Best score soundtrack for visual media "Argo" "The Great Gatsby" "Life of Pi" "Lincoln" "Skyfall" -- WINNER "Zero Dark Thirty"  Best song written for visual media Coldplay -- "Atlas" -- "The Hunger Games: Catching Fire" Jessie J -- "Silver Lining" -- "Silver Linings Playbook" Adele -- "Skyfall" -- "Skyfall" -- WINNER Colbie Caillat featuring Gavin DeGraw -- "We Both Know" -- "Safe Haven" Lana Del Rey -- "Young and Beautiful" -- "The Great Gatsby" (deluxe edition) Regina Spektor -- "You've Got Time" -- "Orange is the New Black"  Best music video Captial Cities -- "Safe and Sound" Jay Z -- "Picasso Baby: A Performance Art Film" Macklemore & Ryan Lewis featuring Ray Dalton -- "Can't Hold Us" Justin Timberlake featuring Jay Z -- "Suit & Tie" -- WINNER Jack White -- "I'm Shakin'"  Best music film Coldplay -- "Live 2012" Green Day -- "Cuatro!"  Ben Harper With Charlie Musselwhite -- "I'm in I'm Out and I'm Gone: The Making of Get Up!"  Paul McCartney -- "Live Kisses" -- WINNER Mumford & Sons -- "The Road to Red Rocks"  See the full list of winners at Grammy.com
Officials said the disruptions resulted in a backlog of of work to get through, cost workers shifts and wages, and caused a negative ripple effect for people up and down the West Coast.   Port of Oakland Executive Director Omar Benjamin suggested the Occupy movement should focus on "real solutions to the problems plaguing our economy. "  On a normal night, several hundred people would be working the graveyard shift, port spokesman Isaac Kos-Read told CNN.   "What has this accomplished?" he asked. "This is disrupting the 99%." The Occupy movement has rallied against what it describes as corporate greed while asserting that the nation's wealthiest 1% hold inordinate sway over the remaining 99% of the population.   Oakland Mayor Jean Quan concurred with Kos-Read, saying the Occupy movement isn't thinking of the consequences of its actions and whom it is actually hurting.   "They are saying ... they have to get the attention of the ruling class. I think the ruling class is probably laughing and people in this city will be crying this Christmas," Quan said. "It's really got to stop. "  Oakland has been a flash point of the Occupy movement since October when police used tear gas to break up demonstrators who refused to leave downtown. One demonstrator, a Marine veteran of the war in Iraq, suffered a skull fracture after being hit with a police projectile, according to a veteran's group; police said they acted after the crowd threw paint and other objects at officers.   The International Longshore and Warehouse Union -- which represents 15,000 dockworkers -- has distanced itself from the protest movement. The union "shares the Occupy movement's concerns about the future of the middle class and corporate abuses," ILWU President Robert McEllrath wrote to locals last week -- but he urged the movement to stay out of its dispute with the port of Longview, Washington, and warned against "outside groups attempting to co-opt our struggle in order to advance a broader agenda. "  In Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, three people claiming ties with the Occupy movement blocked the main door of House Speaker John Boehner office. The men, who said they were in the 120th hour of a hunger strike, sat together with stickers that read "Taxation without representation" taped over their mouths.   They said they were demanding full voting rights for residents in the District of Columbia.   Elsewhere, police moved into the Occupy Baltimore encampment at around 3 a.m. Tuesday to remove protesters that had been in McKeldin Square for the last two months, according to CNN affiliate WMAR. Local reports said officers were out in full riot gear, and police cars surrounded the area, but there were no major incidents reported.   Reports showed the city of Baltimore recently denied a permit extension for the camp and cut off its power supply, and that several incidents -- including a stabbing -- had occurred at the encampment recently.   In a statement released Tuesday morning, Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said people are free to assemble and demonstrate, but "our public parks and green-spaces should not be treated as permanent campgrounds." Rawlings-Blake said her administration will provide "outreach and assistance" to the homeless.   Tuesday's actions followed Occupy protests -- and police reactions -- in several cities on Monday.   In Houston, police arrested 20 protesters after dozens of police on foot and on horseback confronted a somewhat larger group of Occupy protesters who blocked an interstate on-ramp, authorities said.   In Long Beach, California, protests caused isolated traffic delays but did not hinder port operations, according to Police Chief Jim McDonnrell, who added that two arrests were made.   About 80 protesters demonstrated outside the gate of San Diego's port Monday but caused no disruption, port spokesman Ron Powell said. Four people who sat down in the road were arrested, he said.   The demonstrations that began Monday in port cities were part of a nationwide Occupy effort in the aftermath of efforts by cities across the country -- including New York, Boston and Oakland -- to clear demonstrators from encampments they had set up in public parks and other locations.   "We are occupying the ports as part of a day of action, boycott and march for full legalization and good jobs for all to draw attention to and protest the criminal system of concentrated wealth that depends on local and global exploitation of working people, and the denial of workers' rights to organize for decent pay, working conditions and benefits, in disregard for the environment and the health and safety of surrounding communities," Occupy organizers said on their website.   CNN's Greg Morrison, Amanda Watts, Shawn Nottingham , Sara Weisfeldt and Melanie Whitley contributed to this report.
"It's an outpouring of creative talent," exclaimed Douglas Young, a Hong Kong-based designer and entrepreneur, during a recent visit to the protest encampment.   "Why haven't we seen this before?" asked Young, who also took care to point out that he was not an active supporter of the protest movement.   Umbrella inspiration  The sit-in has acted as a magnet attracting artists eager to make their voices heard.   The artist known as Milk told CNN his statue was inspired by the image of a protester holding an umbrella to shield a police officer from the rain.   Most of the other images displayed here also riff on the umbrella and the yellow ribbon, two symbols of the protest movement.   Last month, protesters used umbrellas -- an accessory Hong Kongers carry to protect themselves from torrential downpours as well as tropical sun -- to shield themselves from pepper spray fired by police.   Less than 48 hours into the occupation, demonstrators erected a globe-shaped monument out of umbrellas above the traffic circle next to the Legislative Council building. Since then, the streets and sidewalks have been plastered with cartoon-like characters holdings umbrellas, accompanied by slogans calling for democracy, freedom and justice.   One of the posters shows a helmeted police officer with riot shield yelling "You're such a thug!" while pointing his finger at an umbrella-toting cartoon that resembles the children's book character Paddington Bear.   The artist who drew the cartoon is a 30-year-old graphic designer Carol Hung.   "My initial idea was to make people laugh in this heavy atmosphere," Hung told CNN.   Hung, who described herself as a political neophyte, said she was inspired to produce a series of protest-inspired drawings after seeing reports of police clashing with protesters on September 28th.   "At the moment I saw the tear gas, it made me want to support the students," Hung said.   Art as 'silent protest'  On a recent afternoon, art teacher Josephine Lau sat in the middle of the highway now occupied by students, painting yellow ribbons onto Chinese paper.  She hoped her posters would prove more durable than previous slogans she had made, which were washed away by rainstorms last week.   "We can use different media to express ourselves... to tell people what we feel about Hong Kong," Lau said. "I like the peaceful and silent protest and I'm supporting the students behind the scenes. "  Not far away, 17-year-old Timothy Sun was designing his own posters on the asphalt with the slogan "GOV YU NO LISTEN TO US?"  "I want to use my way to show my voice to the public," the teenager said.   Post-it politics  Like many others here, Sun said his favorite piece of art at the protest site was actually a colorful piece of work created by thousands of contributors named the "Lennon Wall. "  Thousands of pastel post-it notes bearing messages and drawings written by passersby in many languages coat the curved staircase that runs along the outside wall of one of the government office buildings in Admiralty.   Many of the messages profess love for Hong Kong. The wall serves as proof that, despite young Hong Kongers' freedom to digitally post anything they like on social media, there is still a powerful attraction to expressing oneself using old-fashioned paper and ink.   "This feels very much to me like Twitter, but paper Twitter," observed Young, the businessman and art aficionado. "Old school Twitter, if there's such a thing. "  Young, who runs a chain of high-end design stores called Goods of Desire, was quickly inspired to add his own post-it message to the wall.  It was an appeal to Hong Kong's beleaguered top official to preserve the post-it monument: "Mr. Chief Executive, Please don't tear this wall down. "  "I see a lot of tenderness, a lot of passion... a lot of imagination, which is fantastic," Young said, while gazing out on the largely empty encampment and its fluttering banners and posters.   "I wonder where that's from?" he asked. "I wonder where these people will be after this, when it all ends. "  Nathan Mauger and Scott Clotworthy contributed to this report.
"But (the source of the noise) is just as likely to be a natural event. "  Low frequency signals can travel thousands of miles through water under favorable circumstances, at about 1 mile per second, Duncan said. But "at the moment (the sound) appears to be inconsistent with other data about the aircraft position," he said.   That's because researchers at Curtin University believe the sound came from an area thousands of miles to the northwest of the current search area in the southern Indian Ocean. And even then, they haven't been able to pinpoint the source.   Duncan says his team has calculated an "uncertainty box" for the signal's origin. It's area that stretches some 2,485 miles in length from southeast to northwest across the Indian Ocean, and spans some 124 to 186 miles in width at its widest point.   The center of the long, narrow box is south of the tip of India, as shown in a map released Wednesday.   The university on Wednesday released an audio clip captured by one of the listening devices, off of Perth. Duncan says his team has sped up the recording 10 times to make it audible to the human ear.   It also shared charts of acoustic signal plots showing what various devices detected.   Searching in the right place?   The search for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight continues to focus along an arc hundreds of kilometers long, the area where investigators believe the Boeing 777 ran out of fuel, about 1,000 miles off the coast of Western Australia.   Martin Dolan, the chief commissioner with the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), the organization leading the search into MH370 at the request of Malaysia, says an international team of experts continues to review the analysis of Inmarsat satellite data and aircraft performance.   In a television exclusive, Dolan told CNN's "Erin Burnett OutFront" he remains confident the final resting place of MH370 is somewhere along that arc, the so-called "partial handshake" with the satellite:  "We've seen all the data. We've seen all the calculations. We are reviewing the calculations and are also developing our own model to cross check and verify that information," Dolan told Burnett.   When asked last week about the underwater sound being analyzed by the team at Curtin University, along with Geoscience Australia, a government agency, Dolan was skeptical.   "We think that those detections may have been interesting from the point of view of the direction they came, but other characteristics make it unlikely that they are associated with MH370," he said. The ATSB first referenced these signals in a document posted on its website on May 26.   Listening below the surface  As was the case with the Inmarsat satellite -- a communications satellite whose data was analyzed by Malaysia Airlines MH370 investigators as a navigational aide -- the analysis of the underwater signals involves the use of technology for a different purpose than its original intent.   One of the devices, operated by Curtin University and located some 12 miles off Perth, is designed to listen to whales and other marine life. The other is for signs of underwater nuclear explosions, one of 11 operated worldwide by the U.N.-chartered Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) as part of the International Monitoring System.   Early in the search for Malaysia Flight 370, the United Nations reported it had not detected any explosions or plane crashes on land or water from its sensors around the globe. But the recent efforts involve pairing CTBTO data with other sources to see what can be gleaned, officials said.   "One can always be hopeful," said Mark Prior, a seismic acoustic analyst with the CTBTO.   The CTBTO's hydro-acoustic stations detect low frequency sound in the 0-100 Hz range, and can't detect black box "pings" in the 30-40 kHz range, officials said. "It's possible (to detect a plane crash), but the circumstances that would allow it would have to be very particular," said Prior.   Prior said some of those circumstances might include a sloping sea bed. Another possible scenario: the origin of the sound would need to be near the listening device.   The CTBTO's system near Cape Leeuwin, the southwestern-most point of Australia, regularly captures signals of ice breaking noise from Antarctica and seismic activity from Indonesia, he said. "There are other scenarios that would allow (the hydrophones to detect a crash). But it's not certain if there was an impact we would detect it," Prior said.   Attempts were made following the 2009 crash of Air France 447 in the southern Atlantic Ocean to see if underwater listening devices had detected the plane's impact. No data could be found.   Years later, after the plane was located, CTBTO again checked its data, and still was not able to identify signals related to the crash.
The flight, carrying more than 200 passengers, disappeared from radar Saturday and hasn't been seen or heard from since.   Interpol identified the men using the stolen passports as Pouri Nourmohammadi, 18, and Delavar Seyed Mohammad Reza, 29, both Iranians. Malaysian police believe Nourmohammadi was trying to emigrate to Germany using the stolen Austrian passport. The men entered Malaysia on February 28 using valid Iranian passports, Interpol said.   "Interpol is asking why only a handful of countries worldwide are taking care to make sure that persons possessing stolen passports are not boarding international flights," Interpol Secretary General Ronald K. Noble said in a statement.   Before the departure of Flight 370, no country had checked the stolen passports against Interpol's list since they were added to the lost-documents database in 2012 and 2013, Interpol said.   Countries, but not airlines, have access to Interpol's data, and many governments don't routinely check passports against the database.   In 2013, passengers were able to board planes more than 1 billion times without having their travel documents checked against Interpol's data, the agency said. Airlines carried more than 3.1 billion passengers globally in 2013, according to estimates from the International Air Transport Association.   Are stolen passports related to plane's disappearance?   Interpol head Noble said Tuesday that the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 does not appear to be related to terrorism.   "The more information we get, the more we're inclined to conclude that it was not a terrorist incident," Noble said at a news conference in Lyon, France.   There's no evidence to suggest either of the men traveling on the missing Malaysia Airlines flight was connected to any terrorist organizations, according to Malaysian investigators.   On any given day, many people travel using stolen or fake passports for reasons that have nothing to do with terrorism, aviation security expert Richard Bloom told CNN.   They might be trying to immigrate illegally to another country, or they might be smuggling stolen goods, people, drugs or weapons or trying to import otherwise legal goods without paying taxes, said Bloom, director of terrorism, intelligence and security studies at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University.   "For all of those reasons, the very notion that passports might be important in this particular situation may be a red herring," Bloom said.   Noble said Sunday that the fact that any passenger was able to board an international flight using a stolen passport listed in Interpol's databases is a big concern.   "This is a situation we had hoped never to see," he said. "For years Interpol has asked why should countries wait for a tragedy to put prudent security measures in place at borders and boarding gates?"  Few countries look up stolen passports  Interpol does not charge countries for access to its databases, but some of the 190 Interpol member countries may not have the technical capacity or resources to access the network, according to Tom Fuentes, a former FBI assistant director.   "It's just up to the will of the country to set it up and do it," Fuentes said.   Interpol's Stolen and Lost Travel Documents database was created in 2002, following the September 11, 2001, attacks, to help countries secure their borders. Since then, it has expanded from a few thousand passports and searches to more than 40 million entries and more than 800 million searches per year.   About 60,000 of those 800 million searches yield hits against stolen or lost documents, according to Interpol.   The United States searches the database more than 250 million times annually, the United Kingdom more than 120 million times annually and the United Arab Emirates more than 50 million times annually, Interpol said. (Some 300,000 passports are lost or stolen each year in the United States, according to the U.S. State Department, which collects reports of stolen passports and sends them to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and Interpol.)   According to the Department of Homeland Security, Customs and Border Protection vets all travelers booked on flights to, from and heading through the United States through the Advanced Passenger Information System.   It conducts a thorough review of all relevant domestic and international criminal databases, including Interpol's, for any issues of concern. This review includes reports of stolen documents.   "If Malaysia Airlines and all airlines worldwide were able to check the passport details of prospective passengers against Interpol's database, then we would not have to speculate whether stolen passports were used by terrorists to board MH 370," Interpol's Noble said.   The Thailand connection  The Austrian and Italian passports were stolen in Thailand in 2012 and 2013, respectively, according to Interpol.   Thailand is a booming market for stolen passports. Paul Quaglia, who has been working in the region as a security and risk analyst for 14 years, said the situation in Thailand is better than it was five to 10 years ago "but still not up to international standards. "  "Unfortunately, Thailand remains a robust venue for the sale of high-quality false passports (which includes altered stolen passports) and other supporting documentation," he said.   Not all "lost" passports are necessarily "stolen" passports, Quaglia said. "Some passports 'lost' are actually sold by the passport holder. Some young men and others traveling to Thailand, short on cash after extended partying and high living, can be approached to sell a passport, which can be easily replaced at embassies upon presentation of a routine 'lost passport' police report," he said.   Searching for true identities  An investigation was launched into the Flight 370 matter, with Malaysian and aviation authorities reviewing video and other documentation to try to identify not only who the passengers were that used the stolen passports but how the illegal passports cleared security.   In an interview with CNN on Monday, Thailand Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said the country is cooperating with Interpol in the investigation.   Interpol's Noble urged countries and airlines to adopt routine checks against its lost and stolen document database.   "I sincerely hope that governments and airlines worldwide will learn from the tragedy of missing flight MH 370 and begin to screen all passengers' passports prior to allowing them to board flights," Noble said.   "Doing so will indeed take us a step closer to ensuring safer travel. "
The Israeli government blamed Hamas, which denied responsibility but praised the abductions. Israel carried out arrests and demolished homes of the suspects in the West Bank, and launched airstrikes against targets in Gaza that are used to lob rockets into Israel. Palestinians stepped up rocket attacks and clashed with Israeli troops.   Has the Middle East crisis reached a tipping point?   When was the Palestinian teen killed?   On Wednesday, according to his family, Mohammad Abu Khedair was headed to a mosque in his middle-class neighborhood of Shuafat, part of eastern Jerusalem, which is populated by Arabs. Three people in a car forced him inside, according to authorities and family members. He was reported missing and, about an hour later, his body was found in a forest in Jerusalem. Israel vowed a swift investigation and condemned the killing. Still, clashes erupted in the usually quiet Shuafat neighborhood. Residents threw rocks at security forces, and Israeli authorities responded with occasional volleys of stun grenades or tear gas. Some protesters also attacked two fellow Palestinians whom they mistook for undercover Israeli police.   Israel announced over the weekend that several Jewish suspects had been arrested and that there was "strong indication" the killing may have been in revenge for the three Israeli teens' deaths. The clashes are the worst the city has seen in a decade.   Israel has condemned the killings of five teens. Who's the fifth?   Israel announced over the weekend that a taxi driver had confessed to killing an Israeli Jewish teen in May. Shelly Dadon, 19, was kidnapped, stabbed to death and left in an abandoned parking lot. The suspect's motivation was believed to be Palestinian nationalism, Israeli police said. In the Knesset, Israel's parliament, lawmakers unanimously condemned the deaths of all five young people, The Jerusalem Post reported.   Who's the beaten teen?   Tariq Abu Khdeir is from Florida. He was visiting his relatives in Jerusalem when his cousin, Mohammad Abu Khedair, was killed. Two videos posted online Thursday show Tariq Abu Khdeir beaten by men wearing the uniform of Israeli security forces. The videos do not show what led to the beating.   There's a dispute over what transpired. Ron Dermer, Israel's ambassador to the United States, said Khdeir was among six masked people who threw petrol bombs and Molotov cocktails, and three of whom had knives. Still, that would not excuse "any excessive use of force," he told "Fox News Sunday." Khdeir says he was watching protesters and was "attacked." A court has ordered him to house arrest for nine days at a relative's home in a different neighborhood. His mother says the family plans to sue Israeli authorities. Physically, he's "doing a lot better," a family lawyer in Florida told CNN on Monday.   Will this spark a 'third Intifada'?   That's a question being raised by some in the region as well as global media. The term refers to two previous armed uprisings by Palestinians against Israel. The first began in 1987 and ended in 1993 with the signing of the Oslo accords. The second lasted from 2000 to 2005.   "A third intifada is likely if Palestinians fail to distance themselves from the militants following the cold-blooded murder of three Israeli teenagers," the Telegraph's Con Coughlin wrote last week after their bodies were found.   "Put simply, there are solid reasons to fear that a third intifada could be far more bloody than the uprisings that have gone before. Which means the task facing leaders on all sides could not be clearer: they have to calm this situation, not inflame it," The Guardian's Jonathan Freedland wrote Friday.   But Haaretz reported that "many East Jerusalem officials expect the turmoil to die down." It noted that West Bank cities have not joined the violent protest.   To some Palestinians, the intifada is the ongoing effort against Israel. "The blood of our martyrs is precious ... and is fuel for the intifada and the resistance," Mushir Al-Masri, a Hamas leadership figure and member of the Palestinian parliament, wrote Monday on Facebook.   What are Palestinian leaders saying?   Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas surprised many when he condemned the kidnappings of the three Israeli teens. He faced heated criticism from fellow Palestinians for doing so. "Hamas, which is now part of the Palestinian Authority government in a unity deal with Fatah, made no effort to conceal its glee," columnist Frida Ghitis noted on CNN.com. Khaled Meshaal, Hamas political chief, told Al Jazeera after the Israeli teens' disappearance, "I congratulate the abductors because our prisoners must be freed from the prisons of the occupation. "  Palestinian leaders have called for an end to "collective punishment" by Israel, including the demolishing of homes and other military actions. And some have called on Israel to demolish the homes of those behind the killing of Abu Khedair. Palestinian leaders have also condemned the killings of people in Israeli military actions. Israel says it is focused on terrorist networks. More than 150 rockets from Gaza have hit Israel in less than a month, and "terrorists from Gaza opened fire at an (Israel Defense Forces) vehicle patrolling the security fence," the IDF tweeted Monday.   Is anyone calling for peace?   Yes. In recent days, Israelis have held anti-racism rallies to counteract hatred on both sides, including groups of Israeli Jews who were seen yelling "Death to Arabs" after the Israeli teens' killings. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has called on Palestinian and Arab leaders to join his public calls for an end to the killings. "We don't differ between terror and terror, and against both we will act harshly. And I don't differ between incitement and incitement in the state of Israel," he said Sunday, adding, "We will not let extremists -- it doesn't matter from which side -- bring bloodshed to the area. "  Last week, the family of Frankel, the slain Israeli-American teen, also condemned Khedair's killing. Frankel's uncle Yishai Frankel, who works to bring Palestinians into Israel's high-tech sector, said he feels as good as ever about "the good people" he works with. "It's no secret that every society has bad people," he said.   And the family attorney for beaten teen Tariq Abu Khdeir told CNN's "New Day" on Monday, "We need, really, all sides right now to just stop this disgusting cycle of violence where innocent children, both on the Israeli and Palestinian side, are being killed and injured almost daily nowadays. "  What does all this mean for peace efforts?   It's unclear whether there's been any real progress toward substantive peace talks in recent years, with each side blaming the other for preventing them. In April, The Economist called it "a peace process that is going nowhere. "  Israelis and Palestinians may have grown further apart in what they're hoping for. Most Israelis support a two-state solution, according to a new poll by the Dialog Institute, Haaretz reported Monday. But a June poll of Palestinians, taken during the search for the three missing Israeli teens, found that fewer than 30% of Palestinians support a two-state solution. Sixty percent say the five-year goal "should be to work toward reclaiming all of historic Palestine, from the river to the sea," the Washington Institute for Near East Policy found. But the majority support nonviolent methods of "popular resistance. "  For now, the focus for all those opposing the violence is calming anger in the short term -- and stopping the killing.
Cuomo's office did not respond Saturday to CNN's requests for comment on the matter.   Medical marijuana is hardly unprecedented in the United States. Twenty states and the District of Columbia now allow it in some form -- among them Colorado, where as of January 1 it's legal to sell marijuana to those 21 or older -- according to info compiled by the National Conference of State Legislatures. (In addition, Maryland has a limited program for research.) The momentum has picked up of late, with most of these efforts taking effect over the past decade.   The states where there is medical marijuana include Connecticut, Vermont and New Jersey, each of which border New York. And yet the Empire State has not joined them. Versions of the Compassionate Care Act pushed by Gottfried have passed the state Assembly, only to stall in the Senate.   Cuomo is acting without the legislature's OK, though what he's doing is legal, according to Gottfried, whose district includes much of Midtown Manhattan. He explained that the governor is acting on powers granted through a law passed in 1980 in setting the stage for a highly regulated system that's less liberal than many other medical marijuana setups nationwide.   Here's how it would work, according to Gottfried: Under Cuomo's directive, the state health department would take charge by setting up the guidelines and picking hospitals that would take part. These hospitals would then have panels of people who decide, on a person-by-person basis, which patients qualify for medical marijuana.   It has yet to be determined where the medical marijuana -- or the elements of it that might be dispensed -- will come from, including who might produce it.   Gottfried estimated that tens of thousands of people could get medical marijuana by virtue of this policy change, though he insisted it is no substitute for a more complete, far-reaching program.   "(Cuomo) can take (this step) without the need for further legislation," the Manhattan legislator said. "But to have a truly comprehensive and well-working system will take legislation. "  Gabriel Sayegh -- the New York state director for the Drug Policy Alliance, which describes itself as a "national advocacy leader of drug law reform" -- agrees, saying that it too will push for broader medical marijuana laws in the state.   He learned about this latest measure in a call Saturday from the governor's office, saying the proposal originated there and describing it the same basic way as Gottfried.   Even as he pushes for something bigger, Sayegh praised the governor for taking what he called an "exciting" initial step.   "It's tremendous," Sayegh said. "We applaud him coming out on this. It's going to help us build momentum to build a permanent program. "  CNN's Kristina Sgueglia reported from New York, and CNN's Greg Botelho reported and wrote from Atlanta.
Michael suggested that Uber use its vast collection of consumer data to "dig up dirt" on Sarah Lacey, the founder of the Silicon Valley news site Pando.   Over a dinner attended by leading technology pundits, Michael suggested that Uber could spend "a million dollars" to hire a crack team of researchers and journalists. This investigative team might, he said, snoop into the personal and family life of a critic like Lacey who has relentlessly exposed many of Uber's creepiest features -- particularly what she calls  the "asshole" misogyny of its CEO, Travis Kalanick.   Earlier this week, Michael's outrageous and perhaps even criminal idea was leaked by the Buzzfeed Editor-in-Chief Ben Smith, who attended the dinner. This, of course, has generated a massive storm of outrage amongst the technorati.   Peter Thiel told CNN that Uber was the most "ethically challenged" company in Silicon Valley. While The Guardian's Dominic Rushe rhetorically asked whether Uber is Silicon Valley's "worst company. "  All over social media, people said the same thing: Emil Michael was the ultimate creep! The crowd had spoken. Michael's reviews were universally abysmal. He should be yanked, dismissed, fired.   But that's exactly what hasn't happened. In spite of the popular outrage over Michael's behavior, Travis Kalanick wrote an unapologetic 12 part Twitter "apology" which rejected the idea of firing his most senior business executive. Uber investors have mostly remained conveniently silent with a few -- like the normally outspoken Jason Calacanis -- explicitly defending Kalanick and, by implication, Michael.   In The Circle, his brilliant satire of technology companies like Uber, Dave Eggers coined the Orwellian phrase "Sharing is caring" to describe the hypocrisy enveloping Silicon Valley. But, of course, in the sharing economy of multi-billion dollar start-ups like Uber, sharing is only caring when it comes to dismissing lowly drivers or customers. Trust is only the convenient new currency of this economy when it suits Uber.   Otherwise the "new" economy appears to be ominously old, with a rejection of transparency, democratization, openness, accountability and all the other buzzwords of the Internet revolution.   We the people, however, may have the last laugh. The New York Times' Farhad Manjoo wrote that Uber's "toughest challenge" now is improving its dubious ethical behavior. While Dov Seidman, the CEO of LRN and a deep thinker about business ethics, notes that the principle challenge now of a successful startup like Uber is to scale its morality.   "In the past, technology entrepreneurs created and sold devices," Seidman says. "Today, they create and sell platforms for human behavior, which in turn raises real questions about the social and moral implications of the behavior -- and their underlying values -- on their platforms and about the responsibility that they have for these behaviors. Tech entrepreneurs are obsessed about scaling their business models and products. But they should be just as, if not more, deliberate about scaling their values on their platforms and in their companies. "  Travis Kalanick should listen to critics like Seidman. If Uber is to succeed, it needs to scale its morality in sync with its fast-growing business. Firing Emil Michael would be a beginning.   It would say that Uber really is a trustworthy company. It would tell the world that Uber, and Kalanick himself, is beginning to grow up.
Is this latest round of provocations under his son and successor, Kim Jong Un, simply more of what we've seen before?   Not necessarily, argue some of those closely familiar with North Korea. They warn that under Kim Jong Un's rule, Pyongyang has shown an even greater willingness to raise the stakes, whether it be the multiple missile launches over the past several weeks, the way it stoked a crisis last spring when it announced it had ended the 1953 Korean Armistice Agreement and moved intermediate missiles to its east coast, or its warning that foreign companies and tourists in South Korea should evacuate.   South Korea investigates two suspected North Korea drones  More recently, in the U.S. intelligence community's annual worldwide threat assessment, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper warned that North Korea had "expand(ed) the size of its Yongbyon enrichment facility and restart(ed) the reactor that was previously used for plutonium production" but was shut down in 2007.   "The regime still acts in a very belligerent manner, but it seems less predictable, and more random," said Christian Whiton, deputy envoy to North Korea during the George W. Bush administration.   Timeline: North Korea nuclear program  The younger Kim (and young is the right word -- he is still only 31) took office in December 2011, amid questions over how much control he really has over the levers of power, including the country's military of more than 1 million people.   Since then, North Korea has faced additional international sanctions after the launch of a long-range rocket in December 2012, a move that it followed up with the country's third nuclear test, in February 2013.   "The timing and the intensity of North Korea's provocations (since Kim Jong Un took office) clearly demonstrates a high tolerance for risk," said Ellen Kim, assistant director of the Korea Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.   "Since (Kim) took power he has purged almost all of his elder guardians ... and filled his surroundings with new faces. We are in a situation where we are learning about him a little bit every day through his unpredictable behavior and actions, which is why the current situation with North Korea is a lot more dangerous than before," she said.   But James Person, coordinator of the North Korea International Documentation Project at the Woodrow Wilson Center, suggested this week's exchange of live fire is not, on its own, too troubling.   "North Korea actually warned South Korea in advance that they were going to carry out live-fire drills in seven locations. They advised the South to remove ships from the area. All of the shells fell in the water. No land or military installations were targeted," Person said. "This is comparatively a very mild provocation. "  Person said the latest incidents might reflect North Korean frustration on a number of issues, not least the recent joint military drills between South Korea and the United States, which Person described as the largest such exercises in two decades. But most important, Person said, is concern in North Korea over the pace of improved relations with South Korea and the United States.   All just guesswork?   Of course, the most oft-stated problem with speculating on North Korean intentions has been the claim that the information coming out of the country is just too limited to make any concrete assumptions.   "There are no countries as closed as North Korea. Its citizens aren't allowed to travel, and the few North Korean officials who do go abroad are closely watched. You basically have to go back to Stalin's Soviet Union to find something similar," Whiton said. "This makes it difficult to collect even the most basic background information about what is going on, and recruiting espionage sources is very difficult. The regime is very good at preventing knowledge of its inner workings. "  South Korea captures a North Korean fishing boat  A troubling glimpse of what is going on inside North Korea came with a U.N. report released in February. In a 372-page report, the Commission of Inquiry on Democratic People's Republic of Korea outlined claims of "extermination, murder, enslavement, torture, imprisonment, rape ... and the inhumane act of knowingly causing prolonged starvation. "  "The gravity, scale, duration and nature of the unspeakable atrocities committed in the country reveal a totalitarian state that does not have any parallel in the contemporary world," the report stated.   Yet understanding the inner workings of the regime has proven a tougher nut to crack. This was evident in the speculation that swirled around the younger Kim when it became clear he was the most likely candidate to succeed his father; media reports were full of chatter about whether Kim Jong Un's time at a Swiss boarding school, and his apparent love of basketball, were an indication that he might be more friendly toward the West.   China, North Korea slam U.N. human rights report  Indeed, according to a leaked cable published by WikiLeaks, Japan's intelligence community was said to have relied in part on the book of a former sushi chef for insights into the elder Kim's behavior.   Even China, the closest thing North Korea has to a reliable ally, doesn't fully understand the power struggle going on at the top of the North Korean regime, suggested Minxin Pei, a leading China watcher and director of the Keck Center for International and Strategic Studies at Claremont McKenna College. The gruesome execution in December of the younger Kim's influential uncle, Jang Song Thaek, for example, "caught Beijing by surprise," Pei said.   But Person suggested the supposed impenetrability of North Korea might sometimes be overplayed.   "While North Korea has long defied close scrutiny, there is no void of knowledge about the country. We have much more information to call upon than most care to admit," Person said, adding that the Wilson Center for one has spent years "assembling and translating the diplomatic record of North Korea's former communist allies ... (including) thousands of conversations between North Korean officials, including the supreme leaders, and foreign heads of state and diplomats. "  The question confronting policymakers is whether the still inexperienced Kim Jong Un has yet mastered the implications -- and relatively safe limits -- of the brinkmanship that was practiced for so long by his father.   "North Korea is signaling that they are not shutting the door. In fact, quite the opposite is true," Person said. "But this is a very slippery slope -- and could easily turn nasty. "  North Korea election provides clues to reclusive Stalinist state
Indeed, it seems there is an international consensus that there is no appetite for Western "boots on the ground" (besides a very limited presence to secure national assets).   If there were to be any intervention,  therefore, it seems likely it would take the form of "targeted strikes" from the air -- be they via drones, jets or missiles. And we are told that in that case, the focus would be exclusively on "ISIS strongholds" in order to "minimize civilian casualties. "  Removed from the rhetoric of politicos, though, Western intervention would bolster the propaganda efforts of ISIS, for any attack would inevitably kill or injure Muslim civilians, regardless of how well it had been planned or how good the intelligence behind it was. This would be good news for ISIS.   Indeed, the group actually relies on its ability to attribute civilian casualties to its enemies. By doing so, it bolsters the skewed jihadist narrative of international politics and presents an opportunity to exaggerate the non-existent "Crusader threat" and defend the group's false legitimacy.   In short, the more civilians that die, the more events in Iraq can be internationalized, and the wider the appeal of ISIS can become. This effect would be grossly amplified if there were deaths at the hands of the U.S. or the UK.   After all, one of the central tenets of the jihadist narrative is the so-called "War on Islam." Through this much abused paradigm, any international involvement in a conflict involving Muslims is used by jihadists to fortify their ever-tenuous relevance in the modern world.   And even were we to set aside all of the above, we still could not in any way justify intervening against ISIS in Iraq but not against Assad in Syria.   Rightly or wrongly, this would be read by the region's most vulnerable as incontrovertible evidence that the West will only intervene when its own economic prosperity is at stake. Why else would it defend the rights of civilians here and not against Assad after his apparent use of chemical weapons?   The West must ignore Baghdad's plea for military assistance. We must not play into the jihadists' hands.   Instead, we must focus on humanitarian assistance for refugees and diplomatic pressure on al-Maliki to force him into profound and far-reaching reforms.   In the long term, the only solution there can be is a political one: Iraq's economically and politically marginalized Sunnis need to be brought back into Iraq's decision-making process.   But even if it is not our place to carry out military action, this is not to say that military intervention is categorically inappropriate. Indeed, if the Iraqi national army cannot pull itself together, I would argue it is absolutely necessary.   However, it must be at the hands of a Sunni Muslim-majority country, in order to diffuse the narrative of Western armed forces once again attacking Muslims. If a country like Turkey or Jordan acts against it, ISIS's "War on Islam" rhetoric would not have anywhere near the same impact.   Leaving its operational and strategic capacity to regional players, the West's focus needs to be on ISIS's ideological heart.   We need to undermine its greatest rhetorical asset: that Muslims, worldwide, are under attack by the "Crusading" West. This can only be achieved with a policy of restraint.
Jump on the Cathay Pacific flight from Hong Kong, head straight for domestic departures, where I would then board a flight to Tacloban -- a flight of little more than an hour.   Except it wasn't.   TYPHOON TRACKER: Follow Hagupit  Planes...  10:30 a.m. came and went with no sign of a boarding call. I began to meet other journalists waiting for the same flight who were equally at a loss as to what was happening.   We were eventually approached by a Philippines Airlines manager, apologizing profusely. "Technical difficulties" had apparently grounded the aircraft but we were assured there would be another flight at 1.30 p.m.  All other flights to different parts of the Philippines were on schedule, so we were confident about this next take-off time. But as the time approached, no boarding call came. A brief announcement informed us the flight was canceled because of continuing "technical difficulties. "  And so it went. Another airlines staff member presented us with new boarding passes for a 3.45 p.m. flight. Fifteen minutes before departure we were sitting patiently on the airport bus waiting to be taken out to the apron and it looked as if we would finally be on our way.   But the bus didn't move. We sat for 30 minutes until another announcement of another delay. We trudged back to the boarding gate, very frustrated. Other routes were being discussed but all ferries had been canceled and the direct flight still looked the best bet.   More than an hour later we learned that all flights were canceled because of the weather conditions in Tacloban. We appeared to be stuck where the story wasn't.   Blades...  And so to Plan B. A hasty conference call with the Hong Kong news desk and a new plan: Charter a light aircraft.   Initial indications were good. A private operator thought they could get a few of us into Tacloban at first light Saturday. The final decision on weather conditions would be made at 4 a.m. At the appointed time the news came through: Conditions were too dangerous to risk it.   Another call to Hong Kong and we decided that it could be possible to fly to Cebu and take the short hop to Tacloban by helicopter. I boarded my flight at 11 a.m. and was on the island inside the hour to be met by the helicopter crew.   I knew I was in good hands when I met my pilot, retired military man Col. Andy Largo. His flying career included flying four former Philippine presidents around the country, as well as the late Pope John Paul II.   He had already flown two sorties that morning to Tacloban but my anxieties grew as he described the flights. He was forced to touch down early on both journeys because of the conditions -- and they were growing worse by the hour.   The biggest worry, he said, were strong wings that could literally break the rotor blades. If we encountered excessive winds he would reduce the flying speed and edge ahead, waiting for a break in the weather.   I was his only passenger but he took along an engineer to help "just in case." I buckled into the front seat next to Col. Largo and off we went into a murky cloud-filled sky.   It was surprisingly smooth. We flew at between 1,000 and 2,000 feet over a white-capped sea, towards increasingly thick clouds. Our pilot seemed unworried until we got to the tip of Leyte Island and the town of Beybey, which lies at the foot of a range of mountains separating us from Tacloban.   One look at the cloud ahead and he tapped me on the arm and indicated the flight had come to an end. We put down on a playing field and I jumped out.   And automobiles..  I was soon surrounded by a group of locals, who managed to rustle up a van. Ten minutes later we on the road driving along a virtually deserted road in heavy rain, towards the mountains and Tacloban.   It took two hours to make the 100 kilometer (62 mile) journey.   At 4 p.m., 31 hours after touching down in Manila, I finally arrived at my destination.
A prime example of such skirmishes came last week. Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren objected to a GOP provision -- attached to a broad spending bill -- that rolled back a key portion of the Wall Street reform law. Her opposition prompted dozens of Democrats to defect and triggered a last-minute scramble for support; President Barack Obama himself made calls to win lawmakers back and stave off a potential government shutdown.   The spending bill eventually passed the Senate on Saturday night and on Sunday, Democratic leaders downplayed a possible rift within the party.   But the nearly 2,000 progressive activists and operatives who descended on Washington over the weekend for the annual Rootscamp gathering felt otherwise.   Panels addressed things like #HillaryProblems and the lack of understanding between the grassroots and establishment wings of the Democratic Party. And panelists and attendees alike endorsed the newly antagonistic moves from their elected officials this week.   "How do we make change in general, as we're seeing from the streets of DC to Ferguson to New York? I do think that sometimes you have to shut it down," said Alana Krivo-Kaufman, a 27-year-old Rootscamp attendee and an organizer with Jewish Voice for Peace.   And with Republicans taking control of the Senate next month, the imperative for progressives to hold their ground on key issues could grow ever more urgent.   Jim Manley, a Democratic strategist and former Senate leadership aide, said Republicans have given every indication they'll attempt to use a series of upcoming deadlines, including the need to raise the debt ceiling next year, to peel back Democratic policies passed under Obama.   "What we saw just now is just a taste of what's to come for two years," he said.   Obama's standing within the party diminished  And Democrats no longer feel beholden to their de facto leader  the President  as he enters the final, lame-duck years of his presidency. Some now openly admit he's going to have to navigate a difficult terrain within his own party in the new Congress.   Jeremy Bird, the former national field director for Obama's re-election campaign, told CNN the left is still adjusting to the new political landscape.   "Everybody's sort of figuring it out, post-midterms, how it's all going to shake out," he said of Obama's leadership role among Democrats. "I'm sure there'll be other disagreements. And it's a different world with a Republican Senate and a Republican House."   Many progressives are frustrated with what they believe has been too much waffling from the President and other Democratic leaders on the issues that matter most to the base -- behavior they argue contributed to their losses in the midterms.   "All the Democrats who lost were ones who ran to the center,"  Krivo-Kaufman said, echoing a frequent refrain heard from panelists at Rootscamp.   That frustration has fueled a progressive backlash against the more moderate dealmakers in the party, and is what's made Warren so attractive to so many, her supporters believe.   Erica Sagrans, who heads a grassroots super PAC working to draft Warren to run for President, said the issue with candidates in the midterm was they were "afraid" to stand on their principles.   "We can't have candidates who are afraid to take risks and say what they believe in and stand up for something," she said. "You can't just have these Democrats who are everything to everyone and play things very safe and are picked by party insiders to not offend anyone."   Sagrans said the watered down soundbites are meaningless to voters, whereas, "Warren's style of being unafraid of who she is, of being honest, of speaking up" resonates.   Campaign-trail fallout  The elevation of Warren as a prominent figure in these policy fights, and of Wall Street reform as a key issue for progressives, is certain to put former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in a difficult spot as she prepares for a potential presidential bid. More than 300 former Obama campaign staffers signed a letter urging Warren to run for President this week.   Clinton, meanwhile, continues to face skepticism from progressives who believe she's too cozy with Wall Street.   And while Warren has repeatedly said she's not interested in a run, her supporters believe even having her in the mix, and focusing the conversation on Wall Street reform, could help shape Clinton's potential candidacy.   Indeed, the activity surrounding Warren, and the emerging rift within the party, had even Democratic Party officials on Friday predicting a spirited primary battle for the presidential nomination.   "Regardless of who decides to run, we're gonna have a really competitive and interesting primary process," said Matt Compton, the Democratic National Committee's digital director.
In 2006, the number was 1 in 110, and the newest data -- from 2008 -- suggests 1 in 88 children have autism.   Read the CDC report (PDF)  Boys with autism continue to outnumber girls 5-to-1, according to the CDC report.  It estimates that 1 in 54 boys in the United States have autism.   Mark Roithmayr, president of the advocacy group Autism Speaks, says more children are being diagnosed with autism because of "better diagnosis, broader diagnosis, better awareness, and roughly 50% of 'We don't know.' "  He said the numbers show there is an epidemic of autism in the United States.   Early recognition of signs of autism -- a neurodevelopment disorder that leads to impaired language, communication and social skills -- is vital because it can lead to early intervention, says Dr. Gary Goldstein, an autism specialist and president of the Kennedy Krieger Institute in Baltimore.   "There have been studies -- double-blinded studies -- to show that behavioral early intervention changes the outcome for children," Goldstein says.   Roy Sanders and Charlie Bailey sensed something was wrong with their son Frankie Sanders when he was 9 months old.   "Our pediatrician at the time who was a friend of ours tried to tell us that we were being too cautious, we were being too anxious," Sanders says.   Frankie's pediatrician thought his parents were seeing developmental delays that weren't really there. But Frankie wasn't talking, Sanders says. "He didn't have speech; he didn't have any communication skills at all. He didn't point. He would flap quite a bit. He would stare at fans; he would stare at lights; he would become frantic if he didn't have a Thomas the [Tank] Engine because he was obsessed with Thomas the [Tank] Engine. "  His parents kept pushing, and Frankie, now a ninth-grade nose guard and defensive guard for the Decatur Bulldogs football team in Decatur, Georgia, was diagnosed with autism when he was 15 months old.   iReport: Have a child with autism? Sign up to participate in a project with CNN.   "Early detection is associated with better outcomes," says CDC Director Dr. Thomas Frieden. "The earlier kids are detected, the earlier they could get services, and the less impairment they'll have on their learning and in their lives on a long-term basis is our best understanding."   The CDC is working with the Academy of American Pediatrics to recommend that children get screened for autism at ages 18 months and 24 months, Frieden says.   CDC: What you should know about autism  However, according to the CDC report, most children were diagnosed between ages 4 and 5, when a child's brain is already more developed and harder to change.   "Doctors are getting better at diagnosing autism; communities are getting much better at [providing] services to children with autism, and CDC scientists are getting much better at tracking which kids in the communities we're studying have autism," Frieden says.   "How much of that increase is a result of better tracking and how much of it is a result of an actual increase, we still don't know. We know more about autism today than we have ever known," he says, "but there is still so much we don't know and wish that we knew. "
"  Instead the senator will seek a second term in the Senate, where he thinks he can "play the most constructive role. "  Bush is "thinking"  Jeb Bush reiterated that he's still considering a presidential run, revealing more details Monday about his decision-making process.   "I'm thinking about running for president, and I'll make up my mind in short order," the former Florida governor said at an event hosted by the Wall Street Journal.   He said he's determining whether his candidacy could "lift people's spirits and not get sucked into the vortex," adding that he's also questioning if "the sacrifice for my family is tolerable. "  Son says Jeb Bush 'more than likely' eyeing 2016 run  With Bush considered a potential frontrunner, the rest of the GOP field is eagerly awaiting his decision. Those perhaps most interested include Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, who was mentored by Bush, and other candidates who appeal to moderate Republicans, like Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey.   "I don't know if I'd be a good candidate or a bad one," Bush said. "I kind of know how a Republican can win. "  Ben Carson on the verge of becoming a political phenomenon  A renowned neurosurgeon who's become popular in conservative circles, Ben Carson is still climbing up the charts, according to a new CNN/ORC International Poll. Carson came in second place behind Mitt Romney in the survey, which measure support for potential 2016 contenders.   Carson rose to political fame after publicly chiding the direction the country was going during his remarks at the National Prayer Breakfast in February 2013. President Barack Obama was sitting just a few feet away.   Since then, he's been likened to a rockstar among conservatives, and he's become the only African-American Republican expressing interest in a 2016 presidential run. His abhorrence for political correctness has also made him a favorite among radio talk shows.   "I try to talk about what I actually see that's going on and this is what we need in America," he told CNN's Mark Preston for a profile piece. "We need people who are not afraid to express themselves and who are not afraid to debate issues. "  In the interview, Carson said that if the right candidate emerges before May 1, he won't run for the White House.   Rand Paul is definitely running in 2016 ... for the Senate  While Sen. Rand Paul has been saying for more than a year that he plans on running for a second term in the Senate, the Kentucky Republican made it official Tuesday.   But he has a bumpy road ahead. Kentucky election law allows candidates to appear on a ballot only once at a time, making it difficult for Paul if he also runs for president  a decision he told the Lexington Herald-Leader that he's about "four to six months" away from making.   His allies in the state Senate tried to help him by passing a bill that tweaks the law, but the measure stalled in the Democratic-controlled state House.   Still, Paul has other options, including a possible court challenge or convincing the state GOP to change its nominating system in 2016 from a primary to a caucus. That way, his name wouldn't appear on a ballot. Or, he could just not appear on the ballot at all and forego Kentucky's delegates.   It's unclear which direction he'll take, but expect Democrats to seize on Paul's attempt to run for two offices.   "Where I come from, people think if you can't make up your mind on which office you want to run for, then you ain't fit to serve in either one," Kentucky House Speaker Greg Stumbo told CNN.   Chris Christie wins high praise from Iowa's top Republican  In a bizarre 2016 storyline, Gov. Chris Christie vetoed a popular bill that would have banned gestation crates that severely limit the mobility of pigs in New Jersey.   While his decision drew strong pushback from animal rights activists and other supporters, the veto kept Christie in high standing with Gov. Terry Branstad of Iowa. The Hawkeye State is the nation's top pork producer.   Branstad, who holds significant influence in Iowa's first-in-the-nation presidential nominating contest, said Monday that Christie's veto was a "good decision," adding that he personally lobbied Christie to reject the bill.   Christie said he vetoed the bill because it was a "solution in search of a problem" and a "political movement masquerading as substantive policy. "  But his opponents say the decision was simply a political ploy with 2016 ambitions on his mind. Democratic state Sen. Ray Lesniak, a strong backer of the bill, pledged that the state legislature would attempt to override the veto, according to NJ.com.   Mitt Romney's hair. Enough said.   One can hardly write about 2016 without mentioning Romney and the latest earth-shattering news that his picture perfect hair is -- wait for it -- not always perfectly coiffed.   The bombshell was revealed by his wife, Ann Romney, on Twitter during Thanksgiving weekend.   Disheveled or not, he's still the most favored potential Republican contender, carrying 20% support among Republican voters in CNN's latest poll, with other names getting 10% or less.   He may have said a thousand times in the past two years that he's not running again, but until someone else emerges as a frontrunner, voters are poised to keep him as their top choice.   What Mitt Romney learned running for president: Debating is 'sweaty business'  Oh, right. And Newt Gingrich said this.   Talking about the emerging field, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who ran for president in 2012, didn't rule out the idea of another run.   "I haven't totally closed the door, but I'm certainly not opening it," he said Tuesday on CNN's "Wolf."  He later added that it's actually "very implausible" and that he "doubts very much" he'll "end up in that game. "  "But that tells you how early it is," he said.   CNN's Jeremy Diamond, Dana Bash, Eric Bradner, and Mark Preston contributed to this report.
It was this marginalization that provided ISIS, which now calls itself the Islamic State, an opportunity to exploit the Sunni desire for fairer representation.   But as much as ISIS claims to be championing Sunnis, it does not in any way represent Islam. The Quran clearly and categorically condemns forced conversion to Islam. It also accepts other religions and prophets as messengers of God, especially those of the other monotheistic religions: Judaism and Christianity.   What ISIS is doing -- including its targeting of Christians and Yazidis -- therefore has nothing to do with practices through the ages, from the Levant to Andalusia. Indeed, Arab Christians have been an integral part of Arab history -- the presence of Christians in this part of the world is not an aberration, and Christianity is as part of the history of this region as Islam.   Sadly, ISIS has tried to hijack Islam and is often wrongly labeled a Sunni organization.   This is unfortunate as the vast majority of Sunnis are moderates who should not be tarred with the same brush as the extremist group. In fact, Sunnis have largely been the main victims of ISIS atrocities.   In Syria, for example, ISIS has often trained its fire on the moderate Free Syrian Army rather than the forces of the al-Assad regime. In Iraq, meanwhile, ISIS has alienated those Sunni tribes that have rejected its extremist practices, while also fighting (predominantly Sunni) Kurdish forces.   So how should the West and the countries of the Middle East respond to the growing threat that ISIS poses?   The reality is that force alone will not be enough to uproot ISIS and banish the threat it poses to this region and to the rest of the world. Instead, militias such as ISIS -- typically based on rigid and outdated ideological beliefs -- require a multipronged approach.   Yes, military confrontation is an important tool, as is boosting economic and social development in areas affected. But the war on ISIS can't be won unless a key reason for its emergence is not tackled: tyranny and a lack of justice.   Tyranny is another face of extremism, and it therefore makes no sense to treat it as if it is a viable alternative to radical agendas. With that in mind, it is high time that world leaders not just claim to cherish democracy, freedom, justice and respect of human rights while merely condemning the acts of dictators. Empty words will do nothing to change their behavior. Instead, the West must offer genuine support for moderate, civil opposition in Syria and Iraq.   The United States' increased engagement in the region, as signaled by President Barack Obama's speech last Wednesday, is welcome. And the proposed military element -- including airstrikes -- may be successful in containing the threat ISIS poses.   But to truly eliminate the risk of its resurgence (or its replacement by some other extremist group), the West has to be more engaged in finding lasting solutions to fundamental problems in the region.   What are these problems?   Israel's occupation of Arab lands is one. Another is the vindictive government policies that have left large segments of the Iraqi population frustrated, a problem that could in part be resolved by guaranteeing a true power sharing arrangement. Finally, the Geneva process needs to be restarted with a view to forming a transitional government with a mandate for moving toward democratic rule in Syria.   Unfortunately, some in the West have suggested that keeping al-Assad might even be desirable, believing he is the lesser of two evils.   This is not only preposterous, but also immoral and completely ignores the Syrian conflict's role in ISIS's emergence in the first place. Indeed, my country has firsthand experience of having to confront extremism stoked by al-Assad's regime -- back in 2007, when I was Prime Minister, we discovered an extremist group called Fatah al Islam appeared to have links to Syrian intelligence.   Experience has shown us that dictatorships are not a sustainable guarantor of peace for minorities. Instead, only the emergence of a democratic and modern civil state, where all individuals are treated equally, regardless of regardless of religion or ethnic grouping, can bring lasting peace and stability.   And the West should see in this struggle not only a moral duty to act but also its own long-term interests. Ending the Israeli occupation through the principles of a two-state solution while backing the forces of moderation in the Arab world would undermine the appeal of extremists and pave the way for democratic states that foster stability.   Diversity and pluralism in nations such as Iraq and Syria can be seen as either a challenge or as presenting an opportunity. But one thing should by now be clear to all religious and sectarian actors in the Levant: one group cannot force its lifestyle, opinions or policies onto the other groups. Democracy should not be used as an excuse to marginalize a minority.   For years, Lebanon was successful in following a principle espoused by President Obama -- "the principle of no victor and no vanquished." He is absolutely right, and governments and others in this region should listen.   But if the United States wants to see real change, then it will have to empower those moderate forces that are trying to put these fine words into action.
Seeking asylum in the U.S.  As the case goes through the courts, Wani, who is an American citizen, said he is asking U.S. officials to expedite the asylum process for his wife.   If she's released, their lives could be in grave danger in Sudan, he said.   "I am scared for all our lives -- me, my wife and my two children -- if we have to remain inside Sudan, even a day after her release. "  Wani said he is appealing his home state lawmakers, New Hamphire's U.S. Sens. Jeanne Shaheen and Kelly Ayotte.   Committed to her religion  The court convicted Ibrahim of apostasy on May 15. At the time, she was eight months pregnant. She gave birth to a baby girl late last month at a Khartoum prison, where she's detained with Martin, her 20-month-old son.   Despite languishing in prison with two infants, she's holding firm to her beliefs, according to her husband.   "There is pressure on her from Muslim religious leaders that she should return to the faith," Wani told CNN in a TV exclusive. "She said, 'How can I return when I never was a Muslim? Yes, my father was a Muslim, but I was brought up by my mother.' "  Wani said his wife is a practicing Christian, more so than him, and even had their son baptized.   "I know my wife. She's committed," he said. "They brought in sheikhs (to the prison) and she told them, 'I'm pretty sure I'm not going to change my mind.' "  Wani said he is thrilled about his new daughter but hopes her birth doesn't hasten his wife's death sentence.   In past cases involving pregnant or nursing women, Sudan waited until the mother had weaned her child before executing any sentence. Sharia law as practiced in Sudan prohibits carrying out the death sentence on a pregnant woman until two years after she gives birth.   CNN sought comment from the Sudanese government and was directed to the justice ministry. A CNN request for an interview was denied, and the justice minister said they don't comment on matters that are going through the courts.   An attempt to contact Sudan's foreign affairs minister was unsuccessful.   Muslim relatives turned her in  Ibrahim was arrested after Muslim relatives accused her of renouncing her religion.   Their complaint alleged that she went missing for years, and her family was shocked to find out she married a Christian.   Wani said he'd never met the relatives who made the accusations. His wife, he said, was raised a Christian by her mother, an Ethiopian Orthodox, after her Muslim father deserted the family when she was 6.   "These people filed charges claiming that she was their sister and filed a police report saying that she had disappeared," he said.   Brother: Repent or die  However, one of Ibrahim's brothers, Al-Samani al-Hadi, tells a different story.   He claims Wani --- whom he called "the priest" -- fed his sister "potions" to convert her to Christianity. He wants her to repent.   "But if she refuses she should be executed," he told CNN last week.   At first, Ibrahim was charged with adultery for marrying a Christian. The apostasy accusation was added after she maintained she was a Christian, according to her husband.   She's been detained since January 17. In addition to the death sentence, the court sentenced her to 100 lashes for the adultery conviction.   CNN's Nima Elbagir reported from Khartoum, and Faith Karimi reported and wrote from Atlanta.
"They are horrible to look at, and they illustrate apparent actions that would be serious international crimes. "  A preliminary session for the peace talks, dubbed Geneva II, will begin Wednesday in Montreux, Switzerland, and the formal international talks will commence Friday in Geneva between the Syrian government and opposition delegations.   Even as U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon arrived Tuesday in Switzerland, controversy roiled over how the U.N. rescinded an invitation to Iran to join the talks, with Russian officials saying it was a mistake but "not a catastrophe. "  Iran, accused of supporting the al-Assad regime, announced Monday it would not attend the conference because it objected to preconditions seeking a transitional government. The Syrian Coalition, however, said Iran's attendance would have been "a deal-breaker. "  "Continued Russian and Iranian support for the regime is the main obstacle to finding a solution to the violence in Syria," the coalition said in its Tuesday statement.   Meanwhile, in Geneva, delegations to the conference continued arriving Tuesday as media outlets awaited their reaction to photographs purporting to show "systematic torture and killing" of detainees by the al-Assad regime.   Could photos be a game changer?   That assertion is being made by a team of internationally recognized war crimes prosecutors and forensic experts, who analyzed thousands of digital photos taken and provided by a Syrian defector codenamed "Caesar," who, along with his family, is now living outside Syria in an undisclosed location.   The experts' report was partly sponsored by the government of Qatar, which funded the British law firm Carter-Ruck to write it. Qatar and Saudi Arabia provide most of the outside support for Syria's rebel forces.   The experts advancing the report are David Crane, the first chief prosecutor of the Special Court for Sierra Leone; Sir Desmond de Silva, the former chief prosecutor of the same special court; and Professor Sir Geoffrey Nice, former lead prosecutor against former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic.   They shared their findings in a joint exclusive this week with CNN's "Amanpour" and The Guardian newspaper.   The experts contend their analysis -- based on thousands of photographs of the dead bodies of alleged detainees killed in Syrian government custody -- would stand up in an international criminal tribunal.   In the photos, lifeless bodies show signs of starvation, brutal beatings, strangulation and other forms of torture and killing, according to the report.   4 things to know about Syria  In one group of images of 150 individuals examined in detail by the experts, 62% of the bodies showed emaciation -- severely low body weight with a hollow appearance indicating starvation. The majority of all of the victims were men most likely between ages 20 and 40.   Stomachs, faces and even legs are concave -- sunken, rather than convex. On some torsos, bruising and bleeding is so severe that the victims' skin is a mosaic of black, red, purple and pink.   Oblong and parallel wounds, a mix of bruises and torn skin, line one man's chest and torso, covering every inch of the victim's body from neck to pelvis.   The forensics team identified the neck bruising as consistent with strangulation with a rope, piece of rubber, or other such object, as opposed to the marks that would be left by a hanging.   De Silva likened the images to those of Holocaust survivors.   The emaciated bodies were the product of starvation as a method of torture, "reminiscent of the pictures of those (who) were found still alive in the Nazi death camps after World War II," de Silva said in a CNN interview.   The report asserts the killing was orchestrated by Syria's highest levels of government.   Haunting images of Syria's abandoned homes  A complex numbering system was used to catalog the corpses, with only the relevant Syrian intelligence service knowing the identities of the corpses. It was an effort, the report says, to keep track of which security service was responsible for the death, and then later to provide false documentation that the person had died in a hospital.   CNN cannot independently confirm the authenticity of the photographs, documents and testimony referenced in the report and is relying on the conclusions of the team behind it, which includes international criminal prosecutors, a forensic pathologist, an anthropologist and an expert in digital imaging.   The report draws its evidence from the testimony of a defector dubbed "Caesar" and almost 27,000 photographs he provided; in all 55,000 such images were taken out of the country.   Caesar worked as photographer in the military police, and once the war broke out, his work consisted entirely of documenting "killed detainees," the report said.   He claimed to have photographed as many as 50 bodies a day.   At one point he took the unusual step of photographing a group of bodies to show that it "looked like a slaughterhouse," according to the report.   Refugees starving to death in Syrian camp  The fact that all the bodies were photographed, the report's authors say, strongly suggests that "the killings were systematic, ordered, and directed from above. "  It is also possible that far from being a systematic plan to document human rights abuses, photographing the bodies was the unexamined continuation of a long-time practice.   Syria is not a member of the International Criminal Court. The only way the court could prosecute someone from Syria would be through a referral from the United Nations Security Council.   But because of Russia's support for the al-Assad regime, and because it has veto power on the council, such a referral seems unlikely, at least for now.   More than 100,000 people have been killed in Syria since the revolt against al-Assad began in March 2011, the United Nations says. A communique by last year's Geneva I conference calls for a transitional government and eventual free elections as part of a political settlement to end the war.   Al-Assad has called for this week's conference to include a focus on "fighting terrorism" in Syria. Throughout the civil war, Syria has blamed violence on "terrorists. "  In a meeting with Syria's delegates to the talks, al-Assad directed them to preserve their nation's sovereignty by "preventing and rejecting any foreign interference no matter its form and context," Syria's state news agency, SANA, reported Monday.   Al-Assad also said no political solution could be reached without the agreement of the Syrian people and "first and foremost the complete cessation of terrorism" and its support by other countries, the news agency said.   Syria peace talks: Russia criticizes rescinding of Iran's invitation
Through the practice of "sema," or listening, in a prayer-induced trance, the Dervishes aim to act as a bridge between God and humankind.   The Dervishes turn as one arm reaches to the sky "taking from God" and the other "gives life to the earth," Loras says. "We receive from God and we return that light and gift to humanity," he explains.   Every Sunday, a different Mevlevi order visits Istanbul and worships at the Galata Mevlevihanesi, a Dervish "Tekke" or lodge.   When CNN visits the lodge, it is the turn of the Mevlana Culture and Arts Foundation from Turkey's capital, Ankara.   Two teenage Dervishes are conducting their debut sema ritual in public. The young semazens, aged 14 and 15, wear white felt hats rather than the traditional brown. For them, it's a coming of age moment, the beginning of a long life of spiritual modesty displayed through meditative dance.   "It takes about six months to learn how to whirl. There are some people that can't," the "semazenbasi" -- leader of the sema -- Sahin Naci Sair says. "They really need to feel three things. Music, rhythm, and belief. "  In 2005, UNESCO declared the sema ceremony a Masterpiece of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity.   But in Turkey the Mevlevis still face restrictions. The sema ritual exists in spite of controversial laws banning Sufism altogether.   The Mevlevis' religious association was used as justification to ban the order after the founding of the secular Turkish Republic. In 1925, the founder of the Republic of Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, prohibited all Sufi orders, under Law 677 of the constitution on maintaining order.   In the 1950s, the government eased the ban, allowing the sema to be performed in public. But it is commonly assumed this move was to boost the tourism industry rather than a sign of religious tolerance and private worship by the order remains officially banned.   The tourism industry is the main source of income for the Dervishes, with members of the public giving donations to watch them worship.   Each December, there is a huge festival in Konya, where Celaladin Rumi founded the order in the 13th century. At the "Seb-i-Arus," curious observers can watch Mevlevi associations performing the religious ceremony together. Tickets went on sale this month for the ceremony, which runs from December 7-17 every year.   At the beginning of each sema ceremony, the disciples stand with their arms closed to their chest and feet pointed inward. Young and old Mevlevis do this out of respect and to signify humility, fighting their ego through a spiritual journey inside and outside of the Dervish lodge.   Ilyas Noyan Ozatik, the head of the reed flute players accompanying the Ankara semazens in Istanbul, says the Mevlevis "are on an inner journey of oneself to where God is. "  Music is a unifying force he says, bringing "our frequencies together leading to a completion of souls. "  This passionate inner battle reflects their relationship with the outside world. When asked about the turmoil in the Middle East,  Lora points to an old British saying: "if you want a clean street, every shop owner must clean the front of their own shop. "  Mevlevis strive for universal peace, but believe that peace must begin in the hearts of individuals.   As the Dervishes turn, mesmerized and apparently staring into blank space, their spirit takes control and leads them across the age-old prayer space.   They glide effortlessly in circles, their white robes rising and falling, thinking all the while of their act as a bridge from God to earth.
The unrest has centered in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, where separatists have claimed independence following a disputed referendum earlier this month -- and many there did not get to cast ballots Sunday.   As of 3 p.m. (8 a.m. ET), some 528 polling sites out of 2,430 were open in the Donetsk region, the regional administration said. Local officials said there was 11.8% turnout at these polling stations.   Outside the country's restive east, voting was progressing more normally.   The Central Election Commission put voter turnout at nearly 38% as of 3 p.m. local time, not including the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, Ukraine's official Ukrinform news agency reported.   In the city of Donetsk, the regional capital where pro-Russia militias are concentrated, there were no open polling stations, local officials said earlier.   A CNN team driving through the city Sunday morning was not able to see a single polling station in operation. However, there were signs some voters were trying to go to polling stations in areas west and south of the city.   Besides the presidential race, candidates are also running in municipal elections in some cities. The Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe deployed 900 observers for the election -- the largest such mission in its history.   Oleksandr Turchynov, Ukraine's acting President, called the polls open and transparent.   "The voting was free, without artificial restrictions and administrative pressure," Turchynov said in a statement.   U.S. President Barack Obama congratulated Ukrainians for casting their ballots Sunday and criticized Russian-backed separatists, whom he accused of trying to block voting.   "Despite provocations and violence, millions of Ukrainians went to the polls throughout the country, and even in parts of eastern Ukraine, where Russian-backed separatist groups sought to disenfranchise entire regions, some courageous Ukrainians still were able to cast their ballots," he said in a written statement.   "We commend the resolve of all those who participated, as well as the efforts of the Ukrainian government to conduct these elections in the face of those threats. "  Intimidation in eastern Ukraine appears widespread  Increasing violence in the east has led the authorities in Kiev to accuse Russia, which they say is backing the armed separatists, of seeking to disrupt the vote. Russia denies having direct influence over the militants, and Russian President Vladimir Putin has said he will respect the Ukrainians' choice.   Amid heightened tensions, instances of intimidation in eastern Ukraine appear widespread.   A large separatist rally was held in a central Donetsk city square around lunchtime. The protesters, who chanted pro-Russia slogans as they were addressed by separatist leaders, were joined by a substantial number of militants on trucks, some firing guns into the air.   On the back of some of the trucks were armed men who appeared to be Chechen. Two told a CNN team they were from the Chechen capital, Grozny, and one indicated that he was formerly a policemen in Chechnya and was in Donetsk to serve the Russian Federation.   The men, who as Chechens are Russian citizens, said they were there as "volunteers." But if their accounts were true, their presence in Donetsk would appear to indicate some kind of acquiescence by the Russian government at the least.   Residents of Ukraine's southeastern city of Mariupol saw new billboards on the streets Sunday urging them not to cast their ballots. The billboards were not at those locations the night before, residents said.   Also in Mariupol, people talked on social media about being asked by local Russia supporters to boycott the election. The city is one of several where deadly clashes have erupted in recent weeks.   The self-declared mayor of rebel stronghold Slovyansk, Vyacheslav Ponomaryov, has said that anyone who tries to vote there will be arrested.   Also, an Italian journalist was killed Saturday near the flashpoint town, the Italian Foreign Ministry announced Sunday. The man, named as Andrea Rocchelli, was killed along with a Russian citizen, the ministry said. Reports suggested there had been mortar fire in the Slovyansk area.   Ukraine's 'Chocolate King' aims for top job  Opinion: Free elections good for Ukraine, but could be bad for Putin  Putin's 48 hours in St. Petersburg
After the United States acquired Puerto Rico and other territories in 1898 after the Spanish-American War, the Supreme Court decided a series of deeply divided and controversial cases known as the Insular Cases.   While none of these cases addressed constitutional issues relating to citizenship, Justice Henry Billings Brown wrote an opinion in Downes v. Bidwell that suggested, in passing, that citizenship was not a fundamental right in these newly acquired areas, which were populated by what he called "alien races."  Although his opinion was not joined by a single other justice, it was good enough for those in Congress who thought birthright citizenship was not such a great idea for the inhabitants of these areas, who did not look like or speak like them.   The assumption that Congress controls citizenship in overseas territories has survived since, but not without disagreement in the lower courts.   Leneuoti Tuaua, the Samoan Federation of America, and several others born in American Samoa are challenging this faulty assumption in a federal lawsuit  pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. They argue that so long as American Samoa is under the U.S. flag, with American Samoa's sons and daughters fighting and dying to defend that flag, the U.S. Constitution guarantees them birthright citizenship, regardless of what Congress has said.   What does the Constitution itself say? The Citizenship Clause of the 14th Amendment -- part of the Constitution since 1868 -- states that "All persons born ... in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States. "  The great Chief Justice John Marshall explained decades earlier that the Constitution used the phrase "the United States" as "the name given to our great republic, which is composed of states and territories. "  It is no surprise then that those who drafted the Citizenship Clause understood its guarantees to extend to U.S. territories, explaining that "the first section (of the 14th Amendment) refers to persons everywhere, whether in the states or in the territories or in the District of Columbia." Just four years after the Citizenship Clause was ratified, the Supreme Court stated that the clause "put to rest" the notion that "those ... who had been born and resided always in the District of Columbia or in the territories, though within the United States, were not citizens. "  This original understanding makes sense. The 14th Amendment was intended to overturn the Supreme Court's infamous Dred Scott decision and put the question of citizenship by birth on all U.S. soil beyond Congress' power to deny. In 1868, nearly half of all land in the United States was in a U.S. territory. An amendment that failed to guarantee citizenship in U.S. territories would not have been much of an amendment at all.   Birthright citizenship remains a hotly debated topic. But there is a remarkable cross-ideological consensus among legal scholars about what exactly the Constitution guarantees when it comes to birthright citizenship.   Former U.S. Solicitor General Ted Olson, who represented President Bush in Bush v. Gore, and Harvard Law Professor Laurence Tribe, a renowned liberal scholar, argued in a 2008 joint memo that Sen. John McCain was eligible to run for president based solely on his place of birth: the Panama Canal Zone, a former U.S. territory.   Olson and Tribe explained that "birth on soil that is under the sovereignty of the United States, but not within a state" satisfies the requirement for being a " 'natural born' citizen," in light of "the well-established principle that 'natural born' citizenship includes birth within the territory and allegiance of the United States."   President Clinton's Solicitor General Walter Dellinger and former Texas Solicitor General James Ho have echoed similar views on the geographic scope of birthright citizenship.   What the Insular Cases mean for U.S. territories today also remains hotly debated. On Wednesday the Harvard Law School is holding a conference titled "Reconsidering the Insular Cases," with federal Circuit Judge Juan Torruella delivering the keynote address "The Insular Cases: A Declaration of Their Bankruptcy." Torruella has long compared the Insular Cases to Plessy v. Ferguson, criticizing the Insular Cases as establishing a race-based doctrine of "separate and unequal" status for residents of overseas U.S. territories.   In 2008, the Supreme Court also expressed skepticism of the idea that Congress has the power to deny constitutional rights in current U.S. territories, stating that "it may well be that over time the ties between the United States and any of its unincorporated territories strengthen in ways that are of constitutional significance." The court went on to explain that "the Constitution grants Congress and the president the power to acquire, dispose of, and govern territory, not the power to decide when and where its terms apply. "  Although the Constitution grants Congress broad powers in U.S. territories, one that it clearly withholds is the power to rewrite the 14th Amendment's guarantee of birthright citizenship. Denying citizenship in American Samoa is not just unfair, it's unconstitutional.   The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Neil Weare.
West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey filed a request for a civil injunction last week in which he alleges that two female students were victims of sexual assaults over the course of the year at the hands of two seventh-grade boys. According to the filing, abuse of the two 13-year-old Burch Middle School students, also in the seventh grade, took place on multiple occasions between November 2012 and May 2013.   The attorney general says in the filing that two boys would work in concert: one would restrain their victim while the other groped her "breasts, genitalia (and) buttocks. "  Most of the alleged attacks Morrisey outlines in the filing took place at the school, except for a class trip to the state capital of Charleston, where one of the girls said she was raped.   Names of neither the boys nor the girls have been released, but the attorney general's court filing identifies the suspects as Juvenile 1 and Juvenile 2, and states they are both relatives of employees of the Mingo County school system.   Mingo County Prosecuting Attorney Teresa Maynard told CNN that she first learned of the investigation last week after Morrisey filed the request for an injunction. She said she met with the attorney general on Friday and explained to him that her office must be part of the investigation from now on -- and it didn't take her very long to show that she meant it: Maynard filed juvenile charges against both of the boys on Friday. She would not divulge what those charges were.   Maynard has not brought charges against any other parties, but the attorney general did name a handful of teachers and administrators as defendants in the court filing requesting a civil injunction -- which is not to be confused with the filing of criminal charges.   Attorney General Morrisey declined to be interviewed for this article, but West Virginia State Police Public Information Officer Lt. Mike Baylous explained that a civil injunction -- like the one requested by Morrisey in this case -- is an "extreme" court order that is made for the purpose of restraining the defendant -- or in this case, the defendants - from pursuing any conduct that amounts to harassment.   The attorney general made the case in his complaint that he has ample reason to believe that a state investigation would be stymied. As abhorrent as the allegations are themselves, Morrissey says they are not why he is taking this action; he's doing that because, he said "the overall handling of the allegations was inherently flawed and tainted with conflicts of interest. "  That may seem like an understatement in a 32-page complaint that details allegations of disappearing evidence, connected suspects, sham investigations, deceitful and vengeful administrators, and refusals to cooperate with law enforcement.   Mingo County, going back to the Hatfield-McCoy days, has earned an unsavory reputation, thanks to nepotism, cronyism and a spectacular history of vendettas and public corruption.   In the last few years Mingo's sheriff was assassinated, its only circuit judge and prosecutor both went to prison on conspiracy charges in an unrelated case, and a county commissioner pleaded guilty to extortion. Just this week, the mayor of the county's largest city pleaded guilty to lying to federal authorities in a workers' compensation case.   Not even the Mingo school system seems to be immune from controversy. Court filings cite repeated examples of school officials allegedly protecting the accused in the seventh-grade sexual assault allegations, and claim that "a relative of (one of the boys) was directly involved in the handling and investigation into the allegations against (him), and involved in decisions relating to the discipline/punishment of the male juvenile offenders. "  That investigation, according to Morrisey's injunction request, was "ineffective, non-existent, (and) designed (to) illicit contradictory and/or less incriminating statements from the female victims. "  When punishment was doled out, the attorney general characterized it as a mockery. In one instance, for example, a school official "'disciplined' (the boys) for the alleged abuse of a female student by denying them a break for ice cream during statewide testing," the attorney general's court filing said.   The attorney general says the problems go beyond alleged efforts to sweep the accusations under the carpet. Morrisey's complaint said Burch Middle School teachers and administrators "threatened (the girls) with discipline" to dissuade them from coming forward, and the alleged victims were retaliated against when they did.   The day after one of the alleged victims alerted state police in April 2014, she was written up for bullying. Morrisey wrote that the "bullying" was actually the victim blocking her Facebook account from the niece of a teacher at the school. The next day she was written up again, this time for "insubordination," according to the filing.   The attorney general alleges that the other victim says she was targeted as well: the injunction request states that a high-ranking Burch official "retaliated against (her) by removing her from her classes and placing her in other classes that were below her academic level. "  When West Virginia State Police showed up at Burch on April 24, the principal refused to allow a trooper to take a statement from a possible third victim, according to the court filing. The principal "went an additional step further and informed the State Trooper investigating the alleged sexual abuse at the school that he could no longer take statements from students at Burch Middle School because it 'disrupted the learning environment.' "  CNN tried repeatedly to reach the teachers and administrators at Burch Middle School named in the filing for comment on the allegations, but multiple e-mails and phone messages were never returned.   Jason Long, the attorney representing the Mingo County Board of Education and the Mingo County school superintendent, released a statement that said "the Mingo County Board of Education is committed to working with the attorney general's office to resolve this investigation in a timely manner. The hearing today gathered everyone involved and opened a dialogue. We take these allegations very seriously. Be assured our goal is to create a safe learning environment for all students of Mingo County. "  CNN's Janet DiGiacomo contributed to this report.
Abbott won Monday's ballot, with 61 out of 102 of his colleagues voting down the motion to remove him, while 39 voted to vacate his position, along with that of his deputy, the Foreign Minister Julie Bishop. The principle of cabinet solidarity meant the prime minister went in to the meeting with nearly 40 votes secured.   Despite a significant block of lawmakers opposing their leader, the Liberal Party's whip, Phillip Ruddock, a former immigration minister, said there was no debate and that "the result is clear. "  The meeting originally scheduled for Tuesday was brought forward a day, to prevent the prime minister's detractors caucusing in Canberra ahead of the first week of parliament this year. The move was a "captain's call" quipped his nemesis, the immensely popular Communications Minister Malcolm Turnbull who was being urged to show his hand and pledge to stand for the top job in the event the motion to vacate the position was successful.   In the end, Turnbull skated close to declaring his candidacy but stopped short. He would now have been obliged to resign from the Cabinet had he done so.   He may well have won the vote, but the fact 39 out of 102 members of the party have declared a lack of confidence in their prime minister leaves Abbott very exposed.  In recent Australian political history, no leader who has faced such a challenge, itself a vote of no confidence, has gone on to survive the wrath of colleagues.   All have eventually been overthrown. But for now Abbott has at least spared himself the indignity of becoming the shortest serving first term prime minister ousted by his own party.   While lawmakers remain angry by his failure to sell the government's first budget, which has stalled in the country's upper house, Abbott has been accused of not consulting his colleagues on big decisions, among them a botched paid maternity leave scheme, widely seen as favoring the wealthy, and the bizarre knighting of Prince Philip.   He seemed to consolidate this view of him as a non-collegiate player by calling Monday's vote a day earlier than anticipated and without apparent consultation, even with his deputy whose job would also have been vacated had the no-confidence vote succeeded.   Australians have looked on at the shenanigans in their capital with a mixture of delight and dismay. Those who dislike the government were divided by a desire to see the end of Abbott's government and the fear that replacing him with Turnbull would spell disaster for the Australian Labor Party's chances at the next election. Others raised concerns about tossing out leaders when unpopular decisions are taken.   News Corp political commentator Paul Kelly noted that the apparently new political culture of tossing out leaders who make unpopular decisions was damaging the ability of government to govern.   "The politicians will try to deny it -- but our system is moving inexorably into a 'death of reform' straitjacket," he wrote.   The 2016 election is likely to be dominated by political advice to Liberal and Labor not to provoke the voters. This will put Australia on a long-run trajectory of decline and growing unhappiness.   There is broad agreement that frequent leadership changes are not good for Australia. But that is no guarantee that Abbott can and will survive to battle the next election. Indeed, Monday's vote suggests strongly he won't.
On Saturday mornings, artisanal food and hipster fashion fill the second and third floors of a parking garage.   The entrance is down an alley off DeBeer Street and then up a ramp, but the way is marked and decorated with lights.   It shouldn't be a struggle to find the entrance, just follow the crowds of Beautiful People who come every week for lunch.   For shoppers, there are cured meats, rustic breads, endless cheeses, cut flowers and raw chocolates.   For diners, it's a straight shot toward the back for a tray of raw oysters with champagne.   Those who prefer their food cooked can head across the way for the best fried chicken in the city (served over watermelon and fries).   On chilly days there's a potjie, a cast iron cauldron brimming with stew.   Up the stairs is an open-air level with seating that overlooks the neighborhood's pricey new condos and the tangle of train tracks leading to South Africa's main rail hub.   A bit higher up is the fashion level, where racks of leather jackets hang alongside children's dresses printed with Nelson Mandela's beaming smile.   The Braamfontein neighborhood pulls a curious mix of people.   One of the country's most prestigious universities is nearby, along with the Joburg Theatre complex (158 Civic Boulevard St., Johannesburg; +27 11 877 6800) and the headquarters of some of the country's biggest corporations.   A decade ago, Braamfontein felt like it had slipped irretrievably into urban decay.   Now it's one of the most dynamic neighborhoods in the city.   The people who pack into the market are the lifeblood of the small shops and galleries on the surrounding streets, which now do most of their business on Saturdays selling photos taken by street kids, vintage clothing and high-design furniture.   On the east end of downtown, the weekly market at Arts on Main (268 Fox St., Johannesburg; +27 11 334 5947) opened five years ago in a century-old building that was originally a liquor warehouse.   Inside there now, there are craft beers and cocktails to sip every Sunday while shoppers wander aisles of food as cosmopolitan as the city itself.   There's the option of sitting on a stool in a sunny courtyard and enjoying Ethiopian coffee, then moving on to an Argentine barbeque and Italian gelato.   If that doesn't suit, keep walking to find paella, burritos, dim sum and crepes.   This is also one of the city's best places to sample food from around South Africa.   The traditional bread known as roosterkoek cooks on the braai barbecue, waiting to be stuffed with vegetables and meat.   Nearby is a table of curries from Durban, which can be served as "bunny chow" inside the hollowed end of a loaf of bread.   There's freshly sliced biltong, the dried meat that could be beef or game.   Out on the sidewalk, there's a braai shack where fresh meats are grilled on the street and served with chips or pap, finely ground corn meal served thick like mash potatoes.   When the eating's done, the rest of the building and neighborhood make for a great walk.   Artists have set up studios and galleries around the warehouse where visitors can buy super-enlarged copies of iconic "Drum" magazine covers from the 1950s, see how prints are made or pick up a gorgeously illustrated art book.   The surrounding streets host independent shops and cafes, as well as the city's only art house cinema, the Bioscope (286 Fox St., Johannesburg; +27 11 039 7306).   Staying the night is an option.   There's Curiocity Backpackers (302 Fox St., Johannesburg; +27 728 80 9583), run by the charismatic Bheki Dube, who also organizes walking tours and volunteer experiences.   A step above the backpacking circuit is the nearby 12 Decades Hotel (286 Fox St., Johannesburg; +1 866 332 3590), offering boutique-style lodging in 12 rooms decorated by artists to reflect each decade of Johannesburg's history.   At the opposite end of Fox Street, The Sheds (1 Fox St., Ferreirastown, Johannesburg; + 27 84 057 0015) is the newest of the markets, housed in a complex of former mining warehouses.   From the doorstep visitors can see the offices of the mining companies and banks built on Johannesburg's gold wealth.   Inside, well-tended urban farm beds lead to a dizzying expanse of shopping and dining. Indigenous plants like Kalahari melons are transformed into body creams, while old packets of laundry detergent and potato chips become purses and makeup bags.   It's the food, and drink, that draw in the crowds.   Bartenders pull pints of craft beers, next to an American-style barbecue stand and a taco stall.   There's a curious Latin infusion in many of the food stalls, with an emphasis on spicy salsas and novel chocolate sauces.   And there's the full range of traditional South African market fare, including biltong and fantastic cheeses, but also a surprising selection of bubble teas -- the milky drinks often filled with tapioca pearls or fruit jellies that originated in Taiwan.   The driving force behind The Sheds is Gerald Garner, whose passion for Joburg history has turned into a beloved series of walking tours, books and now this market that aims to turn into more than a weekend event.   They're currently open Thursday through Sunday, with a busy calendar of live music and performances.   Griffin Shea is a writer and traveler based in South Africa. His latest project is a travel app for African cities for iPhone and Android.
Teachers wants additional money to teach the additional hours.   Chicago mayor takes strike fight to court  Q. Why are teachers objecting to evaluations tied to performance?   A. The union says student performance is directly linked to conditions in the home or neighborhood, making it unfair for teachers to be punished if students don't do well in the the classroom for those reasons.   Q. How many jobs will be lost under the evaluation plan?   A. As many as 6,000 teachers could lose their jobs under the evaluation system, according to CTU President Karen Lewis, who has called the system "unacceptable."  The mayor's office, the city and school officials have questioned that job-loss figure.   Q. How many school closings are being talked about?   A. The teachers union says 200 schools will be closed, but Marielle Sainvilus, a spokeswoman for Chicago Public Schools, calls the claim "false," asserting that union leaders said recently that 100 schools would close.  "I'm sure it'll be another number tomorrow," she said.   Q. What is the status of the strike?   A. The Chicago Teachers Union will make no decision Monday.  They are taking the day off for Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year.   Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel is vowing to go to court to force teachers back to work, calling Sunday's actions by the union "a delay of choice that is wrong for our children."  He announced in a statement that he's asked city lawyers to file an injunction in circuit court to "immediately end this strike. "  My view: From the picket lines  Q. What's next?   A. The House of Delegates, a group of 800 union representatives, will reconvene Tuesday afternoon, at which point delegates could decide to end the strike. If they do, classes would resume no earlier than Wednesday.  The rank-and-file of the Chicago Teachers Union would still have the opportunity at some point to accept, or reject, the proposed contract.   But as of Sunday, Lewis said a "clear majority" of union delegates did not want to suspend the strike given the proposed contract, saying "they are not happy with the agreement. "  Q. How many teachers are in the union and how much do Chicago teachers make?   A. The Chicago Teachers Union represents 26,000 teachers.  Chicago has the nation's third-largest school system with some 35,000 students, and its teachers are among the highest paid in the country. The median base salary for teachers in the Chicago public schools in 2011 was $67,974, according to the system's annual financial report.   Q. What sort of raise are they being offered?   A. The pay structure would change with a 3% pay hike for the first year of the contract, 2% for the second year and 2% for the third year. If a trigger extends the contract to four years, teachers would get a 3% pay increase. Union members would no longer be compensated for unused personal days, health insurance contribution rates will be frozen and the "enhanced pension program" is being eliminated.   Q. How is the public reacting to the strike?   A. The reaction is predictably mixed in the pro-union town. Parents have had to juggle work schedules and lay out money for child care, but many remain supportive of the union's action.   Q. What do the presidential candidates have to say?   A. Mayor Rahm Emanuel is President Barack Obama's former chief of staff, but the White House has had little to say about the strike. Unions are a major support base for the Democratic Party.   Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, meanwhile, has tried to make political hay, saying, "I am disappointed by the decision of the Chicago Teachers Union to turn its back on not only a city negotiating in good faith but also the hundreds of thousands of children relying on the city's public schools to provide them a safe place to receive a strong education. "  Why they teach, despite it all
