sales in some areas - a rate of decline that was only slightly weaker than that seen in 2015 . Within non-food retailing , the situation became increasingly difficult for clothing and footwear retailers , whose sales decreased once again . Shopping tourism , which has a heavy impact on the industry , stabilized at a very high level in 2016 , judging from VAT receipts at Swiss border posts . Although cross-border , brick-and-mortar shopping seems to have fallen slightly ( - 6.2 percent compared to 2015 ) , the e-commerce portion continued to enjoy strong growth momentum . All in all , one in every ten Swiss francs in the retail sector is likely to have been spent abroad in 2016 . As a whole , nominal sales for the retail sector are expected to flatline in 2017 , which amounts to a stabilization after the weakness of the last few years . The absence of a significant growth impetus from the general economy precludes a more dynamic recovery . Given a stagnating unemployment rate , the best-case scenario is a very gradual recovery in consumer sentiment for 2017 . Since inflation is likely to make a comeback in Switzerland in 2017 , consumer spending power is unlikely to increase much despite a slight uptick in nominal salaries . Provided the Swiss franc does not experience another significant bout of appreciation against the euro , offline shopping abroad by Swiss residents is also unlikely to increase further in 2017 but will , at most , decline only slightly . Real demand will therefore increase slightly in 2017 , primarily thanks to population growth . Retail prices are nevertheless likely to decrease again in 2017 , following on from previous years . In light of the subdued sector outlook , the retail space expansion plans for 2017 are more defensive than they have been since 2009 , though the plans of food retailers are more aggressive those of non-food retailers . Slightly higher demand in real terms will primarily benefit retailers in the food / near-food segment . In addition , they should be more or less able to maintain prices in 2017 , compared to the previous year . Prices in the non-food segment , on the other hand , are likely to keep dropping in 2017 , too . Nominal sales in food retail are likely to grow slightly , whereas the non-food segment will continue to face declining sales - albeit at a slower rate than in 2016 . Burgeoning e-commerce is one key factor behind the current , challenging situation facing many brick-and-mortar , non-food retailers . Swiss consumers made online purchases worth an estimated CHF 7.5 billion in 2015 , i.e. around 5 percent of total retail sales . In the last seven years , e-commerce has seen impressive annual growth of 6.4 percent , and this growth is likely to continue at a dynamic rate in the future . In its latest online retail forecast , Credit Suisse anticipates that e-commerce will nearly double its share of retail sales to more than 10 percent over the next five years . By 2022 , e-commerce is likely to account for a considerable share of total sales in the clothing and home electronics segments , in particular ( 27 percent and 38 percent , respectively ) . The special focus of this year 's study is the regional supply density in brick-and-mortar retailing . It is above average in Switzerland 's main cities and urban areas . By contrast , rural areas other than the main tourist destinations have a below-average supply density . The relationship between supply ( measured in FTEs ) and demand in brick-and-mortar retailing declined in a large number of regions between 2011 and 2013 . Retail employment declined in most major city centers , with a few exceptions , such as Lucerne ; this compares with an expansion of jobs in some of the outer districts . The development of rents for retail property at prime locations was one of the main factors behind the decline in employment in the city centers . A regional analysis of the supply density also shows the impact of the sharp rise in shopping tourism back in 2011 . Retailers in municipalities bordering Germany and France saw a 5.4 percent and 3.4 percent reduction in full-time equivalents ( respectively ) in 2013 compared with 2011 - and the city of Basel , as much as 6.6 percent . Across Switzerland as a whole , there was a 2.1 percent decline . The rise in shopping tourism following the Swiss franc 's rise in value in 2010/2011 accordingly had a disproportionately heavy impact on retailers in the Basel region , in particular .
We lived by the laws of the jungle . My original partners very nearly forced me out of the business , for example - without providing any form of compensation . And institutional sloppiness and arbitrariness nearly drove me to bankruptcy . Organized crime remains active - but it 's in retreat . And obviously corruption is still an issue . But recently in particular , a lot of things have changed for the better . The reform process is beginning to take effect , and there is broad agreement among people about the need for reforms in the administration and justice system . There have been moments when I 'd think back to good old Switzerland - because Bulgaria was a place where you did n't exactly treat your bitter rivals with kid gloves . But whilst the risk is high , so too are the possible returns - obviously . In terms of pure numbers , we 've increased production from 2,000 bikes annually to 300 , 000 . I 'm also involved in the real estate sector at the moment . In some respects , yes . For an entrepreneur in my line of business , the regulatory situation in Switzerland is pretty offputting . Not to mention the level of wages paid to employees . Sure , in Bulgaria you come up against different problems - but to me they seem easier to solve . In a manufacturing outfit like mine , you are dependent on ensuring consistently high quality . In Switzerland that goes without saying - but here it 's a daily battle . Quality awareness , as well as the dependability of employees , is certainly not as good as in Switzerland . By checking , checking - and more checking . I 'm at the firm every day , and every day I make sure everything is bang in order . Also , I 've been really lucky to have finally found reliable partners a couple of years ago . A lot of things are less highly regulated than in Switzerland . On the other hand , everything 's still extremely bureaucratic . We have several people at our firm who spend their whole time pulling their hair out dealing with the authorities . Practically every document needs to be certified by a notary , for example . In Switzerland , most things are done relatively quickly - but a lot of things are just not possible . In Bulgaria a lot of things would be possible - but it simply takes an extremely long time for them to happen . It 's been worth it . Both the bicycle factory and my dealings in the real estate sector . But then there 's the downside : These seven years have been draining . Even today , not a single day goes by without some kind of bolt from the blue . Anyone thinking about coming here should be in no illusion about it : Bulgaria demands total commitment . From a business point of view : reliable local partners . That makes all the difference . I think it will be two or three generations until Bulgaria really shakes off its communist past , with all its idiosyncrasies . The Bulgarians have to realize the need to go for lasting development - it 's not about short-term , overnight success but about persisting with the reform process . And that includes the reform process going on in people 's minds . It 's about the mentality of the Bulgarians . About issues like reliability and being conscious of quality . About the realization that lasting growth is better than rapid growth that subsequently fizzles out just as quickly . But I 'm confident that this country and the Bulgarians will be successful going forward . ( laughs ) Well , as I said , everyday life in Bulgaria comes at a really high price . On the other hand , we 're continuously expanding in the real estate sector . And we 're even toying with the idea of moving into Georgia or Ukraine .
And if I really want complete peace , all I have to do is retreat into my home and unplug the telephone . Jakob Kuhn : When I coached the Swiss Under-21 team , the media were hardly bothered about us - we 'd get a couple of lines here and there at most . I said to my players : " If we want people to start sitting up and taking notice , it 's up to us ! " It was the same story with the national team . We wanted to get Switzerland fans and the whole country behind us , but I knew we 'd first need to earn this support . Our inner circle of players , coaches and backroom staff all had to pull together . But our friends at the Swiss Football Association - not to mention our main sponsor Credit Suisse - also contributed to football 's current popularity . Jakob Kuhn : No , I would n't say that . It 's naturally pleasing to receive recognition from your peers , but it would be disingenuous to claim that one award is better than the other . To do so would be disrespectful to the Swiss public who voted for me . They know as much about football as any other nation - even if they do n't always agree with my decisions . Jakob Kuhn : The journey to the stadium in Dortmund before the World Cup match against Togo was incredible . Tens of thousands of our fans turned up to greet us . It was like the Red Sea parting ! To have that many people cheering us on gave us a huge buzz - simply unforgettable . Jakob Kuhn : No , definitely not . There is a huge difference . The World Cup has always been a huge sporting event . But now it 's also become a huge spectacle . With the flood of media coverage we see today , you see with every step you take what it means to be at the World Cup . But I do n't see that as a negative . It 's a very good feeling that comes from within . Jakob Kuhn : No , never . It 's true that I was quick to become a coach after my retirement in 1977 . But both in Zurich , and from 1996 onward with the Swiss Football Association , I 've always worked with young players , something that 's always given me a good feeling . I never planned an independent career as a coach with ambitious goals such as the Champions League or the World Cup . Jakob Kuhn : Are you expecting me to name names ? No , there were no great surprises for me . I always try to assess the potential of a player . If you look at things this way , it 's more a question of being pleased to see confirmation of your expectations . From the team as a whole I always expect a strong performance - in the knowledge that this will not always manifest itself to the same degree , because we face a team that wants the same thing . But the desire always has to be there . And in 2006 this was the case . Each player wanted to give their all , all the time . In most cases this worked in our favor . Jakob Kuhn : I asked the Swiss Football Association to organize internationals against as many high-caliber teams as possible , and they 've fulfilled this request . Our ten-match schedule has been finalized , but we wo n't be announcing the names of any opponents until the relevant contracts have been signed . My job will be to try and get the best out of my players in these games . Our goal should always be to play perfect football . We should aim for nothing less . At the end of the day , it is results that count , but we want to provide attractive football and not deliberately go out to kill games . Jakob Kuhn : The game against Brazil was a special case . We wanted to use the opportunity to communicate certain information to the players in person . Sure , we ca n't take 30 players to EURO 2008 . We have to restrict ourselves to 23 . But you always have to be prepared for the unexpected . This might take the form of injuries , but on the positive side it may also be a case of players forcing their way into the squad on the strength of their performances . Jakob Kuhn : We 're currently in a phase where we want to meet with the players as often as possible . And it 's not just a question of me - there are other things that need monitoring and keeping an eye on , things that require the doctor and the physiotherapists , for example . The performance tests that we want to carry out are aimed at improving players . And although we rely on the tests of the different clubs , these are not always 100 % comparable . And so every three or four months we carry out our own assessments , so that we can eradicate any remaining deficits by the time EURO 2008 comes around . Jakob Kuhn : Until the final selection day comes , we cannot definitively finalize the squad . The door is always at least ajar , and I 'm thinking here of players like Pirmin Schwegler , Julian Esteban and Zdravko Kuzmanovich . And then even further down the age scale there are other talented players we are monitoring . As a rule that 's something I ca n't do personally , but we have a full staff of coaches nurturing this talent . The important thing is that I 'm informed every week of the latest developments at the different grounds around the country . " EURO 2008 minus 1 " : International Matches Played by Switzerland 07.02. Düsseldorf Switzerland ( 17 * ) Germany ( 5 ) 1:3 ( 0:2 ) 24.03. Fort Lauderdale Switzerland ( 14 ) Columbia ( 31 ) X : X 28.03. Miami Switzerland ( 14 ) Jamaica ( 56 ) X : X 02.06. ? Switzerland ( 14 ) ? X : X 06.06. ? Switzerland ( 14 ) ? X : X 22.08. ? Switzerland ( 14 ) Netherlands ( 7 ) X : X 08.09. ? - in Austria Switzerland ( 14 ) Four-country tournament X : X 12.09. ? - in Austria Switzerland ( 14 ) Four-country tournament X : X 13.10. ? Switzerland ( 14 ) Austria ( 61 ) X : X 17.10. ? Switzerland ( 14 ) ? X : X 17.11. ? Switzerland ( 14 ) ? X : X 21.11. ? Switzerland ( 14 ) ? X : X * Current FIFA ranking ( or ranking at time of match )
new process for all of us . And mistakes were obviously made . Thanks to brilliant people , however , we 've achieved some amazing successes in recent years in particular , " Simeon Sakskoburggotski - Bulgaria 's king from 1943 to 1946 , and prime minister from 2001 to 2005 - recently told a group of investors led by Credit Suisse . After getting off to a bumpy start , the reforms of the last five years have indeed led to a relatively stable economic climate . Real gross domestic product , for instance , has advanced more than 5 percent every year since 2001 ( in 2005 and 2006 , it even hit 6.2 and 6.1 percent respectively ) . The inflation rate - having reached a record 2,000 percent at the start of 1997 - is now about 4 percent , while the rate of joblessness has fallen from just shy of 20 percent in 2000 to today 's sub-10-percent level . In a meeting with participants on the Interactive Field Trip , finance minister Plamen Oresharski spoke of his real optimism : " From an economic standpoint , our reforms have been a great success . But I think the fact that the reforms are recognized across all parties is just as important . So it does n't matter who 's in charge next - the reforms will be maintained . " But despite Bulgaria 's economic achievements , it would be a mistake to compare its current position to the likes of Poland , Estonia , or the Czech Republic . The country continues to battle against an inadequate judicial system and an often cumbersome administration . Added to that , corruption scandals continue to make the headlines . Perhaps corruption - and the seemingly never-ending war against it - should also be seen in a sociopolitical context : The fact is , Bulgaria 's gross domestic product in 2005 was only 3,480 U.S. dollars per capita - almost 6,000 dollars less than the average annual income of the countries included in the latest accession round . All the same , finance minister Oresharski does not shy away from identifying the problems : " It 's true that not everything is rosy . In Sofia , we have taxi drivers who used to be nuclear physicists - but they earn more money driving around in a cab . At the same time , a lack of highly qualified labor threatens to impede our economic progress . And even though we 've made major strides in the fight against corruption and in bringing in administrative reforms , we 've still got further to go . " Like many emerging economies , Bulgaria is a land of contrasts - or perhaps more accurately a land of many shades of gray . Investors such as André Felder from Switzerland , who runs a bicycle factory here with an annual output of 300,000 units , has some tales to tell : From deceitful business partners to institutionally driven quasi-bankruptcies . On the other hand , Felder thinks the position has actually improved considerably in recent years and that he is on safe territory today with his investments in the real estate sector . This change for the better is also fueling speculative activity among potential investors . They are drawn by an increasingly solid currency , falling interest rates , a relatively stable political situation , and above all rising stock prices . Assuming all goes well , membership of the European Union will continue to spur things on . In Bulgaria , they 're hoping for growing interest on the part of foreign investors , a flourishing of domestic industry due to the outsourcing of labor-intensive manufacturing processes and , last but not least , improvements to the often moribund infrastructure thanks to EU structural and cohesion funds . The jubilation expressed by the country 's people on New Year 's Eve is perhaps turning out to be justified - if a little premature . As Plamen Oresharski says : " The population may be slightly overoptimistic when assessing the benefits of joining the EU . But at the end of the day we are a pragmatic people , and we do n't expect miracles . While we are doing all in our power to move forward , we should n't forget that our development must be on a sustainable footing . But the groundwork has been laid - and the omens are good . "
, the significance is central . The financial markets allocate global resources more efficiently than other mechanisms , making money available to those who need it in the form of investments and allowing all to profit . This creates value . Yes , trillions that were first created in the markets . But in this context it is important to note that the tech bubble , which caused that destruction of value as it burst , hap pened in one part of the global financial markets , namely the stock market , and even there it hit some areas - tech , etc. - stronger than others . Even though it was possible in that time to mitigate the effects by having well-diversified portfolios across different asset classes , whose returns are more independent of each other . Exactly . That is where we come in. Expertise and experience are essential ingredients to the successful generation and maintenance of value in the financial markets , which is a fair definition of our business of asset management . It is our job to make sense of the increasingly complex and diverse financial markets and find the best way , not only of generating value for our clients , but also of managing their risk . It 's about finding a comprehensive solution . This brings us to the heart of the matter . There are a number of ways to make money , whereby it ca n't be said that one is better than the other , they 're just different . It is a question of what a given investor is more comfortable with . One investor looks at returns in relation to the returns on cash . This is what we call total return oriented . On the other hand there are investors who look at returns in relation to equity and bond markets . Both are going for positive returns , though on different time horizons . Total return investors want to see a positive return every year , and must be willing to sacrifice some longer term return for that . The one who is looking more toward market returns is willing to have negative years , but has a longer time horizon to capture the risk premium that financial markets offer . What is important in all this for any investor is to decide on a style - on an investment plan and then to stick with it . There will always be times when one style is outperforming the other and vice versa . If you keep switching , you are running after the action , dropping performance and increasing trans action costs . Switching is tied with risk . What is risk ? Risk is very subjective , meaning different things to different people . The fluctuation in the value of a portfolio is one form of risk , so is the probability of falling short of a certain return over the longer term . If you look at fluctuation , equities tend to be riskier than investment grade bonds . Some risk can be eliminated by diversification , or by spreading one 's investments across a number of asset classes , regions , countries , styles and issuers . The remaining risk is called systematic risk and cannot be eliminated . So , some portfolios remain riskier than others , but offer a higher return over the longer term . This is a general trade off - higher longer term returns mean on average that you need a longer investment horizon . Once an investor has decided what kind of risk level is acceptable , with our help or without , we can then help in using the risk level optimally . One thought in this context is that there is such a thing as over diversification , where the return of a portfolio is simply taken down to the market return , which may not be appropriate for a given investor 's goals and time horizon . Our profession is no more immune to mistakes than others . This is one reason that I , as CIO , insist on a structured investment process . Such a process has a number of advantages . Next to acting as a check on our work as investment professionals , it enables us to bring in all the different factors that determine the value of our asset classes into a holistic and consistent system . These factors take on many different forms , from so called soft factors to the outputs of highly sophisticated quantitative models . It is in the interpretation of these factors where the art of portfolio management lies . As CIO , I decide on the asset allocation in our discretionary mandates . Put simply , I determine whether we invest relatively more in bonds , equities , cash or alternative investments , also on the allocation of different sub asset classes , such as credits , hedge funds or private equity , regions , countries and styles , such as value or growth stocks . First of all , we are a whole team of different specialists who constantly monitor the mar kets and what influences them . We look at valuations , economic indicators , the output of a number of quantitative models as well as soft factors such as investor and business sentiment . All these factors flow into our investment process . We then take these results into a com mittee comprised of the most senior man agement of Credit Suisse , as well as other strategists in the bank . I then decide how to bring the output of this body into our mandate portfolios . All this takes place on a monthly basis , though if we deem some kind of action to be indicated outside of this cycle , we can certainly do so . A discretionary mandate is one of the most efficient ways of managing the assets of private clients . With their relationship managers the clients go through a detailed ad visory process which is designed to determine the needs of our clients as closely as possible . Of course some clients already have a very concrete concept when they come to us , which we can then take up . This way we learn how risk tolerant a client is and what kind of return expectations he or she has . We learn about preferred markets or asset classes , or securities and markets the client would rather exclude . We can determine the best mandate for the client , according to which we then manage his money . It depends on the type of mandate . Some mandates , which are available from a relatively small initial investment , are standardized to a certain degree . But even here , different risk return profiles , different regional focuses and different styles lead to a good degree of individualization . As investments grow bigger , we move into the realm of true customization , with the possibility of setting up a genuinely individual portfolio , with unique characteristics and its own benchmark . Putting it simply , yes . Obviously , this requires a great deal of trust on the client 's part and a great deal of discretion . As one of the largest Swiss banks with a 150 year history and as a leading global money manager we are well aware of our clients ' needs and expectations . And through our comprehensive and understandable reporting , we can give the clients full transparency into their investments at any time . As I said before , as CIO I am responsible for the asset allocation decisions , or the big picture of the markets and asset classes , though in previous jobs I also was responsible for stock and bond selection . I can say , however , that we are excited about the LEA ( Latin America , Eastern Europe , Asia ) regions . The growth engine of the world is clearly shifting from the developed countries to such countries as China , India , Brazil or Russia . We are getting in early and want to ride the growth curve over a 10 year horizon .
can overcome its self-evident problems . For too long it has been the forgotten Continent but it is now growing significantly and - providing it has the support necessary to deal with its problems - has a future that can overcome the difficulties it has faced in the past . Obviously Nelson Mandela is an iconic figure , and Kofi Annan has represented Africa in a key position in the United Nations . And , of course , President Mubarak of Egypt has been an international figure for many years . The European approach to Africa varies from country to country , but overall it is rather disappointing . A number of European countries are very active in the provision of aid , or conflict prevention , or dealing with vital issues such as the export of drugs and counter-terrorism . There is still a significant amount of trade between old established trade partners , most noticeably those countries that once had a Colonial relationship . One difficulty in the current relationship is that of old resentments that remain from those Colonial days , although in most cases these are now fading significantly . I believe there should be a much greater symbiosis between Africa and Europe . For Africa , Europe is a huge market for its raw materials and other products , whereas Africa presents an astonishing long-term investment prospect for European capital . China is very active in nearly all parts of Africa , especially in countries such as Sudan or Angola where the Chinese have significant contracts to buy oil . But it is doing more than that . China is developing infrastructure projects , often tied to aid , using Chinese partners and contractors and in so doing , improving African infrastructure . Chinese interest in natural resources extends beyond oil to the minerals and forests of the Congo , and arable products in a number of other countries . This appears to be a developing long-term relationship of great significance . At the moment economic growth across Africa averages at around 6 percent , with Angola the fastest growing country in the world at the present time . I believe it is very likely that Africa can begin to close the gap on growth with the mature countries of the West due , predominantly , to the enormous demand there will continue to be for the Continent 's commodities : food , oil and other natural resources . But it will take a long time before the prosperity gap can be closed with much of the rest of the world . The experience of Latin America over the last two decades shows that it can be narrowed within a generation . However , to achieve this , some of the fundamental problems facing Africa will have to be addressed , such as political stability , AIDS , and , to a lesser extent , climate change which could adversely affect food production . The Continent of Africa is enormously diverse and so are its strengths . Predominantly , of course , there is an abundance of oil , minerals and arable products , as well as the potential of human resources . These do , however , vary widely between countries . The biggest dangers facing Africa are political instability and ancient feuds . Political stability - the elimination of corruption in a number of countries - seems to me to be the essential pre-requisite for sustained growth and an improvement in the quality of life for Africans . In recent decades , too much of African wealth has been dissipated instead of being used to underpin continuing prosperity . Sport can make a significant contribution to bringing people together . From what I have seen of Africans , they have a great affinity for sports . Consider , for example , South African cricket ; or the remarkable athletes of Kenya and Ethiopia ; or the success in soccer of the African Nations Cup , many of whose stars flourish in premiership games in the United Kingdom . Sport is a great unifier . I would very much like to travel to South Africa for the FIFA World Cup in 2010 but cannot yet be certain that I will be able to do so . However , what I can be certain of is that I will be visiting that and other countries in Africa before then . Such trips will - as always - give me enormous personal pleasure .
in certain key positions , and there could be a change of emphasis . One important signal is the nomination of Alexander Konovalov as minister of justice , succeeding Vladimir Ustinov . Soaring commodity prices and the rise of emerging markets like India and China are indisputably the main growth drivers . Russia 's growth rate has the potential to remain strong if the necessary structural reforms , such as modernizing the country 's judiciary and bureaucracy , are carried out . To tackle the widespread corruption is also essential . But the country can theoretically continue to grow even without these structural reforms , albeit at a slower pace , thanks to its vast reserves of natural resources such as oil and gas . Undoubtedly yes . It 's unequivocal that the broad population has benefited from the past decade 's economic growth . It can however be argued that the depth and breadth of the wealth distribution has not been as fair as it could have been . It will depend on the development of commodity prices . These have declined in relative value over the past 100 years , but rapidly risen over the past seven years with energy prices being a major lever . Russia 's energy supply is an important asset , though a diversification of its economy would be good to sustain a broader growth base . It 's developing quite strongly . We see this in terms of the prices paid for banks being acquired . The sums paid for financial institutions are way above the levels paid for similar institutions just two or three years ago . There is a strong inflow of assets into the sector . Clients from the middle class have quickly become more sophisticated , not so different from their European or American counterparts . They tend to invest in their home country and put their reserves abroad , mainly in Europe or Switzerland . When it comes to Russian high-net-worth individuals , they tend to be closer to their businesses than in the West . They are often both the owners and the managers of their business empires . He seems aware of the structural reforms Russia urgently needs . The question is what his political focus will be . Russia cannot really be compared to the three other BRIC economies . It is so different , with its higher per capita income , smaller population and Northern mentality . My experience as banker has taught me that while investors talk a lot about business opportunities in India and China , they actually make the highest return on investment in Russia . Yes . Medvedev is the Russian president and can decide which ministers he wants to work with . In theory , he has considerable authority . It remains to be seen how much he can actually do in the short and medium term . It 's a tough issue to resolve , as billions of dollars have been flowing into the Russian economy driven by soaring oil and gas prices . Structural reform , encouraging investments , would help absorb more money in a non-inflationary way .
invest up to 750 million dollars in the project . Satellite internet is also on the drawing board in Paris . Under the " Digital France 2012 " initiative , every French household will get access to the internet by 2012 - even at locations where there is no cable connection . With its Tooway™ internet service , Eutelset intends to play a key role in the project . Europe 's second-largest satellite operator this year began to invest in a new satellite infrastructure for the whole of Europe - a project designed to bring satellite internet quality up to the standards of the terrestrial cable network . In Switzerland , Swisscom announced at the start of the year that it was intending to offer this service in future as a complement to its DSL-based broadband solutions . The move could enable the firm to meet its statutory requirement of delivering a basic service to all parts of the country by 2017 , including the mountainous regions . To date , satellite service operators have made most of their money from offering TV and video-on-demand . Growth has been driven by the rapid rise of new payTV broadcasters , particularly in the emerging markets , together with the expanding spectrum of TV channels and increasing demand for superior transmission quality ( high-definition TV ) . The main buyers of the transmission capacity provided by the satellite operators are media and television companies , the public sector ( the military , for instance ) , but also companies from the telecommunications sector - where the trend is increasing . Since July last year , for instance , SES - Europe 's biggest satellite operator - has had success in offering its IP-Prime product to telecom firms in the US . This delivers a low-cost feed comprising TV , payTV and music channels to the telecom service providers ' IPTV platforms ( TV via internet protocol ) . Europe 's satellite duopoly ( Eutelsat and SES ) have similar plans for Europe , too , using their own products ( KA-SAT , ASTRA2Connect ) . The two companies envision a potential market of 15-30 million households , which the telecoms firms could serve more competitively and with superior quality using satellite internet rather than their copper-wire network . The ASTRA2Connect product that SES has been offering for about a year now is growing by 10,000 connnections a month following initial teething troubles . But with estimated annual revenues of 35 million euros from 2010 , this service is likely to remain something of a niche - in particular given that the potential internet customer has to bear relatively high equipment costs ( satellite key , encoder , etc. ) . The telecom service providers ' interest in satellite-based internet services extends much further , however . The use of satellites is unlocking attractive , cost-efficient opportunities for mobile telephony services in particular . Telecoms companies have to date offered mobile internet and television via their UMTS networks , which requires a lot of bandwith and is therefore still relatively expensive for the end-consumer . In future , though , TV , internet , video and music content could be fed into terrestrial DVB-H or DVB-SH networks digitally via satellite and transmitted to the end-consumer 's mobile device on a competitive basis . The particular attraction of this is that services can be combined with navigational and locational information ( GPS ) , thus opening up a broad spectrum of new services . Back in 2006 , Europe 's SES and Eutelsat satellite duopoly founded Solaris - a joint venture designed to offer this type of transmission service to telecom firms . The necessary frequencies are to be awarded in spring 2009 , opening up new perspectives for satellite operators . Satellite operators are likely to perform relatively well in a deteriorating economic environment . Very long-term customer agreements make future income streams relatively transparent . There is no overcapacity , and demand far outstrips supply . While this is a capital-intensive industry and debt levels are relatively high , refinancing is consequently secured over the long term and there is substantial scope for passing on price increases . The sector is therefore seen as a relatively defensive investment , with the market not yet fully recognizing the prospects outlined .
Siemens , ABB , Applied Materials , and Oerlikon - once again sent their leading representatives . Politicians such as EU Energy Commissioner Andris Piebalgs , Australian Governor-General Quentin Bryce , and the President of the Seychelles , James Alix , also came to discuss the future of renewable energy and environmental technology with corporate representatives . Much of the conference 's power to attract was once again attributable to the ecocity of Masdar . The emirate of Abu Dhabi last year began building the world 's first carbon-dioxide-neutral city . The city will not generate any waste , and will produce all its own energy requirements . Masdar will eventually be home to 50,000 people , and up to 90,000 workers . The emirate intends to invest 15 billion dollars in the plan , and a further seven billion is to be raised from private investors . The slump in oil prices and resultant declining income of the oil-rich emirate will not affect the plans : " When we decided to build Masdar , back in 2006 , the price of oil was just as low at 44 dollars a barrel , " says Sultan Al Jaber , CEO of the Masdar operating company . " We intend to expand our role in the international energy markets . " In addition to its strong position in fossil fuels , Abu Dhabi intends to make Masdar into a global center for renewable energy sources . Accordingly , Abu Dhabi has set itself a target of raising its proportion of renewable energy from the current level of virtually 0 to 7 percent by 2020 . In global terms , the emirate aims to use Masdar to forge partnerships with a string of companies and governments . During the conference , for example , Masdar and General Electric signed an agreement under which the US conglomerate will set up the first center in its " Ecomagination " program in the ecocity . With this program , the US giant is developing ecological business solutions for its entire product range . Swiss Federal Councilor Moritz Leuenberger signed a declaration of intent with Abu Dhabi for the construction of a " Swiss village " in downtown Masdar . A string of Swiss firms are intending to establish a presence there . But the Swiss Embassy too will be relocating from Abu Dhabi to Masdar , and would be the ecocity 's first foreign embassy . This strong Swiss presence has been possible because Swiss companies were involved in Masdar 's development from a very early stage . Zurich-based planning firm Maxmakers was the very first foreign company to collaborate on developing the concept . Credit Suisse manages the 250-million-dollar Masdar Cleantech Private Equity Fund , which invests on a selective basis in companies that operate in the " green economy . " Other countries are catching up . Both France and the Netherlands are also interested in having a presence in Masdar . British prime minister Gordon Brown came to Masdar back in October to lobby for British firms and raise capital from Abu Dhabi for the UK 's own " green " economy . Masdar is no longer just a few dozen hectares of land on the edge of the capital of the United Arab Emirates ; instead it has become a global vision . A strategic partnership has been entered into with German energy group E.on , for instance . The partners intend to build major renewable energy installations . The first project is the London Array wind farm , sited off the east coast of England . On the conference fringe , the Basque regional government reached agreement with Masdar on setting up a joint venture to manufacture components for production of concentrated solar energy . Abu Dhabi intends to use its new weight in the alternative energy economy at a political level too . For example , the emirate is canvassing for Masdar to be made the headquarters of the International Renewable Energy Agency , set up in Bonn , Germany on January 26 . " We will pursue this objective aggressively , " says Al Jaber . The United Arab Emirates is also one of a small group of countries behind next week 's founding of an institute for capturing and storing carbon dioxide in the Australian capital of Canberra . Most participants at the World Future Energy Summit in Abu Dhabi were agreed that renewable energy has become a global business . " This is an exciting time for alternative energy , " says Jeffrey Culpepper , Head of Credit Suisse 's Investment Banking Department in the Middle East and North Africa . The capacity of wind power , for instance , has grown 28 percent on average in recent years - 2008 included . This year , growth is likely to be considerably weaker . But for the period beyond 2010 , there are strong signs of renewed , rapid growth : Under Obama , the US intends to increase federal spending on renewable energy tenfold to 150 billion dollars over 10 years . The EU is planning to treble its share of renewable energy to 20 percent by 2020 . And in China , wind power continues to grow apace . From Tony Blair 's perspective , this boom in renewable energy cannot come too soon . " It is now that we must put the world on a path to sustainable growth for the future . "
reserve requirements and made credit lines directly available to the corporate sector . The rebound in economic activity will result from timely government reaction in an environment where the Brazilian financial system has proven very solid . This recovery was driven by a sound domestic market , in an environment where the labor market showed strong resilience in the first half of this year , with still increasing real wages and a small job creation . The recovery in developed countries from third quarter of 2009 onwards should help mitigate the contraction in the Brazilian economy and ensure that Brazil embarks on a strong growth cycle over the next few quarters . Brazil still is a relatively closed economy and it has a large home market . The government acted quickly and implemented successful countercyclical measures when credit conditions tightened and the economy signaled a slowdown . This blunted the impact of the financial crisis , and while the crisis was not insignificant , it did not hit Brazil particularly hard . The most important change in recent years has been the diversification of exports . This was not only reflected in increased exports to China - it was also reflected in foreign trade with many other emerging markets , including other Latin American countries . However , China is now clearly one of Brazil 's most important trading partners , and because it accounts for approximately 14 percent of Brazilian exports ( up from just 6 percent in 2005 ) China is just as important as the US . The increasing importance of China manifests itself in commodities , where demand is growing steadily and international prices are rising . Yes . The macroeconomic measures the government took were certainly correct to a large degree . It followed a fiscal surplus policy , continuously reducing its level of debt since 2003 . Furthermore , the government granted the central bank autonomy . Thus , Brazil was able to build up considerable foreign currency reserves following a policy of floating exchange rates with little intervention . As a result , the public sector was no longer exposed to the US dollar . Thanks to these measures , Brazil was able to benefit from favorable international developments , while simultaneously improving its own solvency indicators . Well , there has been progress over the last two years , but so far there has been no real breakthrough in institutional reforms . The government attempted to push through a tax reform , which is an extremely complex matter because of the complicated tax system in Brazil . The lack of consensus in Brazilian society regarding tax progression led the reform to falter . Nor was there any agreement with respect to labor and social security reforms . Yes , but these issues should not be underestimated , and the reforms must be taken up and implemented by the government and congress in the long term . This is the only way to ensure Brazil 's long-term competitiveness . The government has signaled that it wants to meet the schedule for these investments . However , the crisis will probably prevent all of the investments from being made on time . The government has extended its offer of credit for investments to soften the impact of the crisis . In principle , financing is now provided by the public sector , i.e. by state-owned banks . The tax burden of investments has also been reduced . As a result , the outlook for the infrastructure sector over the next few years is very favorable - irrespective of whether the government meets its investment goals or not . Brazil 's infrastructure is still not very highly developed and therefore has good prospects . The real estate sector is already experiencing strong growth thanks to lower interest rates , but I still see a lot of potential here . I also think agriculture and the biotech and alternative energy sectors are promising . For example , Brazil has a renewable energy program involving the use of ethanol in place of oil distillate that is being closely watched around the world . That 's right . The Brazilian banking system is one of the most solid in the world . Thanks to the measures taken by the central bank , we have not had any problems with domestic banks , which remained strongly capitalized and did not face material liquidity issues . Of course , this does not mean that Brazil has escaped the credit crisis unscathed , but only small and medium-sized banks , which are more dependent on wholesale and cross border financing , have been impacted . Credit Suisse maintained its strong position throughout the crisis because we took a number of measures to reduce risk and leverage and to diversify our earnings base . As a firm , we emerged from the crisis even better positioned than we were before . I think our clients and counterparts see it this way too - a number of private clients , corporate , and institutional clients look to Credit Suisse as their preferred partner , and this gives us tremendous opportunities . I would say the prospects in Brazil and elsewhere have never been better . Clearly , the opportunity to be the best and most admired bank in the world is within reach .
" " Many emerging markets are flirting with recession themselves , " echoed Kasper Bartholdy , Credit Suisse 's chief economist for emerging markets during a panel discussion held on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Davos , Switzerland . " There is no question that 2009 will be a very tough year for emerging markets . " Latin America is mostly hit by the sharp declines in commodity prices , while emerging countries from the EMEA region mainly suffer from the drop off in international funding flows . The oil producers in the EMEA region are also hit by the sharp decline in oil prices . Africa also significantly feels the impact from the fall in commodity prices . Asia is n't as dependent on international capital and mostly benefits from the lower commodity prices , as most countries in Asia are commodity importers . This does n't mean that Asia is spared from the global slump , Bartholdy noted . " Asia suffers from the sharp decline in demand for its industrial and manufacturing products . " According to Bartholdy , there is some good news around : " Many emerging markets entered the crisis from a position of strength , with strong growth and strong fiscal balances . The vast majority of them have pursued prudent macroeconomic policies that enable them to obtain funding relatively easily from the International Monetary Fund . Their currencies have stabilized after depreciating as much as 20 to 30 percent against the dollar and the euro last autumn . The stability of their currencies has enabled the central banks in various emerging markets to cut their interest rates , helping to reduce the pain a little bit , " he explained . In his opinion , there are signs hinting that the global economy may be reaching a bottom : " Commodity prices have been pretty stable in the past two months , and a number of global indicators , whether the German consumer confidence index or the Chinese purchasing managers index ( PMI ) have stopped falling . " However , emerging markets are n't as affected by the crisis as many developed economies , " as they did not hold such developed tools in its financial market , " noted the former Prime Minister of Lebanon Najib Mikati . " Positive growth is expected in Lebanon in 2009 , notably thanks to the good collaboration between the central bank and the financial sector . This cooperation is built on trust , making our financial sector very safe , " said Mikati . The Lebanese central bank has managed to double its foreign currency reserves to 20 billion dollars today , from 10 billion dollars a year ago . Mikati is also the co-founder of the industrial conglomerate M1 Group and Investcom , a telecoms business now part of the South African-based mobile telecoms company MTN . " Just a year ago , Russia was seen as a safe haven . Many people did n't think that the US crisis would affect Russia much , but they were proven wrong , " said Pavel Teplukhin , who pioneered mutual investment funds and private banking industry in Russia . He is the president of Troika Dialog Asset Management and works as an advisor to the Economic and Finance ministries . " Russian assets are currently undervalued , but it 's difficult to estimate to what extent as there is no proper revenue forecast available , " said Teplukhin . China and Russia are in a similar situation today , with potential foreign exchange reserves amounting to between 30 and 40 percent of their gross domestic product . " They can afford to run a budget deficit for some time , but it 's a very risky way for recovery . The safest way out of the crisis would be to cut government expenses , keep the budget under control , and keep the interest rates low , " Teplukhin added . " It would be a mistake to support local household demand . It 's local investment demand which needs support by keeping the cost of capital low . "
is the expansion of the NPC standing committee from seven to nine members . " The new leadership team will increasingly need to practice consensus building amongst themselves " , says Julien Lippmann from Credit Suisse Equity Research . Jiang Zemin 's " Three Representations " theory has also been enshrined in party doctrine . The party now represents " advanced production forces " , the " advanced culture " and the bulk of the population , in addition to peasants and the working class . In this way , the party aims to strengthen its power base amongst the population . This is a quantum leap that throws out the classical concept of the enemy - capitalists and intellectuals . " Furthermore , managers at state-owned enterprises now have the chance to join the party and will have a say in party politics " , explains analyst Julien Lippmann . There is still a lot of work to be done in the area of civil rights , however . The economic situation has improved tremendously . In addition to joining the WTO , the NPC and it 's standing committee have revised patent , copyright and trademark laws . " Chinese citizens can now acquire the right to own land " says Julien Lippmann . In the past , the Chinese could buy property but could only rent the land for 50 to 70 years . " This represents a milestone . Private property will have better protection under the law . " Although the communist regime continues to hold power , the People 's Republic of China is increasingly developing into a market economy . Reforms can only be tackled gradually . " The top priority of the government is currently social stability " , explains Julien Lippmann . Before allowing China 's economy to open , the government guaranteed a job for each citizen . Today unemployment is a major problem : state-owned enterprises are heavily indebted and the government is trying to bolster private enterprise to create new jobs . From December selected institutions will be able to invest in A-shares traded in yuan in Shanghai and Shenzhen . " Up to now , foreign investors were only allowed to invest in less liquid B-shares or in the H-shares and red chips listed on the Hong Kong exchange " , says Julien Lippmann . Only Chinese investors were able to invest in A-shares . " By opening the A-market , the authorities want to attract more foreign direct investment and stimulate stagnating local stock markets . " Credit Suisse analysts do not expect a rush of foreign interest , however , due to repatriation problems and expensive valuations for A-shares . Credit Suisse therefore continues to focus on selected stocks among the more favorably priced H-shares and red chips . Just how long can China continue to open up its economy without having to introduce political reform ? " Credit Suisse will maintain its neutral marketing rating until more details of political reforms emerge and the ministerial posts are filled " , says Julien Lippmann .
mainly on the changing role of the banks and the dollar . US and European banks , but not those in Asia or Latin America , have taken unprecedented losses during the crisis . To plug the gap , these banks have raised capital from governments and private investors . However , there are further major losses still in the pipeline for many banks , and these will swallow up a substantial part of their profits for the next ten years . Looking beyond that , the big structural issue is whether the US and European banks embark on a major new round of leveraging-up and risk-taking to fund economic growth in their own economies and abroad , or whether they take a back seat , with local emerging market banks and direct investment flows through the capital markets being in the lead . Over the last few decades , many of the US and European banks have generally recovered reasonably quickly from credit slumps and started robust loan expansion again , but will it be different this time ? Currently , the political debate in America and Europe is focused on ways to restrain such leverage and risk-taking . Governments can enforce this through three main routes . First , by explicit direction to banks in which they have invested - but most governments are reluctant to go too far with this , and anyway they are looking to sell their stakes sooner or later . Second is by requiring banks to break up into smaller and perhaps specialized units , but this is controversial and could damage the competitiveness of the banks affected if it is not done in all countries . Third is by tightening regulations . For example , banks could be forced to build up extra capital buffers in good years , to be run down in the bad years ( " countercyclical provisioning " ) . It would also be feasible to require minimum liquidity standards or impose an overall minimum ratio of capital to loans . This would be a sensible addition to the existing rules which apply lower capital requirements for less risky loans ( the " Basel II " rules ) . Rule changes like these are probably the main way in which governments will aim to influence banks , although they are unlikely to be adopted uniformly around the world . As a consequence , the regulatory environment will differ greatly from one country to the next . The impact of all this is likely to vary somewhat among banks and between countries . Of the large US and European banks that previously had large international investment banking operations , some seem to be evolving to focus mainly on domestic clients ; some are staying internationally orientated , but are adopting a significantly more conservative approach to risk ; while others , within the context of somewhat tighter regulations , seem likely to resume reasonably aggressive risk-taking . In the short term , this means reduced competition ( and thus greater opportunity for oligopoly profits ) for those that remain active in international investment banking . But new competitors are on the horizon . Some of the Asian banks , which are already strong and very large but domestic-focused , are likely to move to play a much larger role in intermediating capital flows at the global level . Thus , if we look ahead five years or so , the total number of major banks operating at scale on a truly global basis may be similar to that before the crisis , but these banks are likely to be more evenly spread around the world , with the US and Europe no longer so dominant . Moreover , they are likely to be accompanied by rapid growth in a number of second-tier banks in emerging markets around the world , active in intermediating flows into their fast-growing home markets . The dollar currently plays a central role in the world 's currency system in several key ways : It is the main currency for invoicing and settlement of international trade ; it is by far the largest component for the foreign exchange reserves of most sovereign states ; it is the unit to which many countries explicitly or in practice link their own currencies , at least in part ; its capital markets are still the deepest and most liquid in the world ; and it is the currency which many international investors use when monitoring their investment portfolios . But many investors have started to question this role , given that the financial crisis had its epicenter in the US financial markets , and given the focus this has brought to the debtor status of the US . The dollar 's central role dates back to the post-Second World War economic arrangements under the Bretton Woods agreement . In the 1970s , a central part of those arrangements ended , when the dollar 's link to gold was broken and many currencies moved from fixed to floating rates . For a while the dollar 's central role was in doubt , but there were several reasons why , in the end , it retained that position : The US was still a creditor nation ; the geopolitical power of the US was rising as the Soviet Union moved toward collapse ; and there was no serious alternative currency . Now , however , circumstances are very different . The US is the world 's largest debtor , and while this ensures a plentiful supply of dollar assets , it is a concern for investors that could ultimately threaten its credibility . In geopolitics , the US is still by far the world 's largest power , but the medium-term prospects for China , India and other nations are a clear pointer toward a multipolar world in coming decades . And an alternative currency satisfying some of the functions played by the dollar now exists , in the form of the euro . Foreign exchange reserves held in euros are rising , though still modest relative to those in dollars . The euro is now the major peg for the currency of a number of countries . Meanwhile , China 's renminbi has the potential to take on a similar role within perhaps one to two decades , assuming that China 's rapid economic development continues and that currency reform keeps pace . This is still far from being a creditable alternative at the moment , as the Chinese currency is not even freely convertible and domestic money markets are underdeveloped . None of this seems sufficient to unseat the dollar from its global financial role in a timeframe of a few years . But if we look forward ten years or so , it seems likely that the dollar will have lost its current pre-eminence , as the world becomes more multipolar in both politics and economics . One possibility is that the dollar , euro and renminbi form a kind of tripartite system , each with its own sphere of countries that tie their currencies to them more or less formally , each with a sphere for trade invoicing and settlement , and each playing a major role in foreign exchange reserves . A variant of this vision would see a key role for the IMF 's basket currency ( the SDR or Special Drawing Right ) updated to include emerging market currencies integrate the renminbi . In the aftermath of the credit crisis , the world is becoming multipolar , and this is likely to be clearly reflected in many aspects of the financial system . The dominant role of the dollar and of the US banks is set to give way to a world in which the US is still important , but in which other countries , their currencies , their capital markets and their banks , all play a greatly enhanced role . As with all great changes , this structural shift will offer both threats and opportunities for investors .
infrastructure , the development of processes , innovations and human capital in the Swiss economy . The importance of these two big banks for the Swiss economy can be summed up by the figure " forty percent . " Together , they account for an estimated 40 % of the overall value generated by banks and pay an average of about 40 % of the tax contributions by banks . Furthermore , they employ over 40 % of all personnel in the Swiss banking sector and account for 40 % of domestic banking transactions . As a banking center , Switzerland has a dual structure : A rough distinction can be made between institutions with a national focus ( cantonal banks , Raiffeisen banks , commercial banks , regional banks and savings banks ) and internationally oriented banks ( big banks , stock exchange banks , private banks and foreign banks ) . Whereas the former primarily operate in the deposits and loans business , the latter operate mainly in global asset management and investment banking . As globally active full-service banks , the big banks are a firm feature of both domestic and foreign transactions . Nevertheless , their market share for domestic transactions ( 41 % ) is considerably smaller than for transactions involving foreign clients ( 82 % ) . The big banks are very important market participants for investing savings and pension capital in Switzerland . In 2007 , domestic creditors of the two institutions entrusted assets worth a total of CHF 348 bn to them . This gave the big banks a 45.3 % share of the overall market and 59.7 % of the market for fixed-term deposits . At the end of 2007 , in terms of occupational benefits and fixed pension plans , the big banks managed an estimated CHF 220-250 bn ( almost half of the total in Switzerland ) in securities safekeeping accounts for domestic pension funds , vested benefits accounts / assets for insured persons , and fixed pension plan accounts and investments . The big banks are the largest providers in the domestic credit market , financing 36 % of loans to private households and 42 % of all corporate loans . In terms of loans to SMEs - the cornerstones of the Swiss economy - their market share stands at over 30 % . Regardless of the type of debtor , unsecured loans are also awarded in Switzerland . In this type of transaction , the bank can only bring direct action against the debtor alone and has no further collateral in the form of shares , for example , or guarantees . Around 25 % of all loans in Switzerland are requested without collateral , more than half of which are awarded by the big banks . The market share of the big banks on the Swiss mortgage market amounts to 35 % . Alongside these mortgage volumes worth CHF 236 bn - which corresponds to almost half of the entire Swiss gross domestic product ( GDP ) - it is also worth mentioning construction loans , where the big banks hold a market share of around 28 % . However , these banks are not only present as lenders on the real estate market . The pension funds of both banks hold direct investments of CHF 2.9 bn in Swiss properties , and indirect investments of CHF 0.9 bn . In addition , for SMEs , which - due to the limited size of the domestic market - are dependent on global commerce , trade finance services ( such as financing , risk minimization , diversification , support with import-export activities , etc. ) . Due to their international orientation , big banks are particularly suitable for providing these services . Their size gives rise to economies of scale , and makes it easier to hedge risks . Credit Suisse is the Swiss market leader in export financing , and one of the largest providers on an international level . Asset management can be regarded as a core competency and a central , stable pillar of Switzerland as a banking center . According to information issued by the Swiss National Bank ( SNB ) at the end of August 2008 , securities portfolios held in client safekeeping accounts at Swiss banks amounted to around CHF 4.8 bn . The market share of the big banks can be estimated in terms of commission revenues . On this basis , the big banks possessed by far the largest proportion of managed safekeeping account holdings as at the end of 2007 . Investment banking comprises both classic investment banking services ( corporate financing , capital market emissions , mergers and takeovers ) and trading transactions ( securities , foreign exchange , commodities and banknote trading , as well as issuing and secondary market trading of structured products ) . In Switzerland , companies active on the capital market are just as dependent on investment banking for obtaining investment resources , financing international activities and stock market flotation as they are on the public sector for infrastructure and equipment investments . The big banks ' investment banking activities in Switzerland are rooted firmly in the capital requirements of companies , and to a lesser extent on proprietary securities trading . Due to their specialist expertise and size , the two big banks are the prime pillars of investment banking in Switzerland . In 2007 , their share of this market was as follows : stock market flotation : 35 % ; bonds issued by Swiss borrowers : 46 % ; mergers and acquisitions : 50 % ; foreign exchange trading : estimated at 50 % . The main criteria for evaluating the economic importance of the big banks are value creation and employment . Tax receipts and the influence on the Swiss balance of payments are also of macroeconomic relevance . In 2006 , value generated by the banking sector amounted to CHF 40.7 bn ( 8.4 % of GDP ) . No figures are collected for the individual banking groups ; value created by the two big banks is estimated at around CHF 15-17 bn . In 2007 , the gross value creation per employee in the banking sector was more than double that for the rest of the tertiary sector . This high productivity is reflected in higher-than-average salaries . At CHF 8,745 , the average monthly salary in the banking sector is considerably higher than the Swiss average salary of CHF 5 , 979 . The two big banks are among the largest employers in Switzerland . In 2007 , of the 3,264,527 full-time equivalent positions in Switzerland , 108,821 were in the banking sector . The big banks employ 46,210 people , which corresponds to 42.5 % of all full-time positions in the entire banking sector . In addition , the big banks train a high number of employees in Switzerland , with Credit Suisse and UBS offering , among other things , 330 ( 180 CS and 150 UBS ) placements for students , and 525 ( 300 CS and 225 UBS ) graduate jobs . Furthermore , around 200 apprentices per year complete a commercial banking apprenticeship or IT apprenticeship at Credit Suisse , with around 40 high school graduates participating in the Junior Banking Program . The sum of the salaries received by big bank employees in 2007 was estimated at CHF 6.1 bn . A large proportion of this income flows back into the economy through consumption . Based on the fact that people in the income category of big-bank employees spend some 57.8 % of their income , total consumer spending by the big banks ' workforce amounts to CHF 3.5 bn per year . The counterpart to consumption is saving . In the income class of big-bank employees , 14.6 % of disposable income is saved . Due to the substantial salaries paid , this high saving rate ( well above the Swiss average of 10.1 % ) results in a large volume of savings . The banks make a substantial contribution to tax receipts in Switzerland . The tax contributions fall into three categories : Taxes paid by financial intermediaries ( income taxes and taxes on capital , as well as " hidden " taxation via VAT ) . Taxation of production factors ( income tax on employees ' salaries / bonuses and tax paid on dividends by shareholders ) . Taxes paid on client transactions with banks ( these generate a significant proportion of stamp duty and withholding tax , alongside VAT on financial services and on the quarter of the EU withholding tax on interest income that remains in Switzerland ) . Over the past three years , the banking sector has generated a total of CHF 13-15 bn in taxes . This accounts for 12-14 % of tax receipts for the Confederation , cantons and municipalities
States during World War II as a child prodigy until the age of 15 . Some 30 years later , I came back to the New York Philharmonic as an adult and began a new relationship based on something considerably more solid . This relationship culminated into the music directorship which I am enjoying today . Not until my early 20s . I had spent most of my childhood as a musician learning to play the violin , piano and clarinet and studying composing . In my late teens , I felt there must be many other things that I did not have an opportunity to explore , including literature , history , philosophy and languages . So , I put myself through night school at the University of Pittsburgh . I worked during the day by playing violin in the Pittsburgh Symphony . I joined not for the purpose of widening my dimension as a musician , but for the purpose of earning money to put myself through school . Little did I know that those performances would turn out to be decisive for me because I was playing under some of the most famous conductors of the day , and I was learning a great deal from them without realizing it . They were convincing me that my future would lie in music , just as my past did . Fame is what other people think of you and about you . It is being known outside your own private circle of family and friends , but it is really an extension of that . If you are known by 50 people or 50 million people , what 's the difference ? Seen that way , fame is no more or less important than being known by your inner circle . Most people , however , do n't see it that way and they attach some kind of value to fame that it does n't have . I was quite famous - if that is what you want to call it - as a child . Some people have said that I was forgotten . I was n't forgotten . It was just that people saw no more reason to be interested in Lorin Maazel as a young adult . The Lorin Maazel they knew was a boy in short pants with black curly hair looking very serious conducting famous orchestras and masterpieces . That person was gone . With the disappearance of that person went knowledge of him and his fame . Therefore I learned early that fame is ephemeral . People are forever talking about legacies and a place in history , but that is total nonsense . Even the shortest view of history will show us that there have been hundreds and thousands of great artists , poets and musicians who have been forgotten . To be overly focused on questions of posterity and legacy , of having a place in history , is a waste of time . It is an egomaniacal exercise irrelevant to the purpose for which performers should be concerned . We are there to communicate what it is that we know about the music with people at a given moment . To the degree that we are successful , people react positively . If we are successful in doing so time and time again we become famous , but that fame will soon evaporate and folks wo n't remember our names 30 years from now , nor should they . We are people of the moment . I suppose we all are , but especially performers . Only people who know nothing about music become critics . Therefore , the opinions of critics mean nothing to me . What personality traits does a successful conductor have to possess ? There are certain natural aptitudes , such as excellent memory and preferably perfect pitch , which is the ability to identify the number of vibrations each note has so that you are able to identify the note itself . You also need the ability to perform publicly , believing in the people for whom you are performing , and you must have the desire to open musical vistas for them and give them pleasure as listeners . And , one must also have respect for the great composers who have given us the music that we perform . That is why we are there . It is my job to help the musicians to feel that all of the years they have put into practicing their instruments and the hours they have to put in every day to stay fit technically , has a purpose and is worthwhile . Actually , the first thing you try to do is meet their expectations professionally in order to gain their respect . You ca n't impose respect , you have to win it . The second area is motivating them musically . You have to feel that the music you are asking them to make is based on some kind of musical logic on a purposeful utilization of musical instinct . Each musician also has his own way of making music and to express himself . I try as hard as I can to incorporate a personal musical view into a larger structure . If I disagree fundamentally with a musical viewpoint entertained by an individual soloist , I will speak to him or her quietly about it and explain my reasons . Nine times out of 10 , what your first chair players have to offer is of the highest order . I love incorporating their individuality of expression into that larger structure , and to come up with a kaleidoscope of colors and phrasings that mesh very well because of the guiding hand of the conductor , who is thinking about timing and structure . I believe that classical music − having come from a certain religiosity where compassion for the masses is underlined in requiems − has the power to touch people on a very emotional level . That is a big task for any undertaking , but classical music can come closer to a universal appeal than any other activity . In responding to classical music , people from different classes do find common ground . There are moments engraved in my mind that bring that forth , for example the first time the Star-Spangled Banner , the national anthem of the United States , was played by the New York Philharmonic in North Korea in February 2008 to an audience of mostly Korean government officials . They cheered when it was over . That was an extraordinary event . I do n't think any greater example can be given of bringing people together through music − though the Star-Spangled Banner is not a classical work . I try to support organizations that are apolitical , but they are very difficult to find . I do believe that art and artists should be divorced from partisan politics or political tilts . If I give my services , I try to do it for a specific issue , such as for children who need important inoculations against diseases . I am planning to devote more of my time to such issues , starting in 2010 . I have performed in many countries in which the political stance leaves something to be desired in the area of human rights . Yet , the people 's response to our music is so indicative of the state of mind of the people as opposed to the government which rules them and the positions they take . I remember giving a concert for the UN in New York City with a Russian soloist and the Pittsburgh Symphony at the height of the Cold War . After the performance we walked out arm-in-arm and I stopped the applause and said : " Here you have an American conductor and orchestra making music with a Russian . If we can get together , why do n't you folks out there emulate our example ? " Keep in mind that I said this to a room full of diplomats from around the world . My statement was met with deathly silence and I thought I 'd overstepped my bounds and , yet again , let my tongue get the best of me . After what seemed like ages , everyone stood up and began cheering . They saw my point . If the world of music can get along , they should also consider finding common ground , instead of building obstacles . Of course there are differences between culture , between economic and political interest and questions of historical conflict , but all this can be ironed out . Classical music is not dying as some people might think . It may be faltering among the tired , aging , American upper-middle class , but it
spending is difficult to quantify exactly . But if one assumes that the US consumption-to-GDP ratio reverts back to its long-term average of 66 % from its 2006 peak of 76 % , the reduction in spending is likely to amount to around USD 1.4 trillion per year , based on 2008 US GDP of USD 14 trillion . This cutback in US consumer spending represents over 7 % of US annual GDP and 1.6 % of annual global GDP , and is one that will likely need to be compensated for if global growth is able to return to its trend level of 3.5-4 % . The void left by the US consumer will be difficult to replace . Nonetheless , many observers hope that a drop in spending by the US consumer will at least be partly offset by increased consumption-led growth in emerging markets . The arguments in favor of emerging market growth story are clear : For the first time since the industrial age , the 5.4 bn people living in emerging economies today account for more than half of global GDP , on a purchasing power parity ( PPP ) basis . And this share of the global economy is set only to grow in the future . In fact , the IMF expects emerging markets to grow by an average annual rate of 5.3 % through 2014 , which dwarfs the 1.3 % growth rate the Fund expects advanced economies to grow at over the same time period . Also , unlike many advanced economies , emerging economies today often have lower debt levels , higher foreign exchange reserves , and they make up over 82 % of the world 's population - representing around 5.4 bn potential consumers with an estimated combined purchasing power of over USD 18 trillion . And while the emerging market growth story is certainly no novel concept , most corporate strategies have focused almost exclusively on a relatively small fraction of emerging market consumers - the emerging middle class , or those 1.4 bn people in emerging markets already earning between USD 3,000 and USD 20,000 per year . This emerging market segment is largely urban , already well-served and highly competitive . At the same time , this wealthier segment makes up only one quarter of the entire emerging market population ( Figure 1 ) , leaving the remaining majority of 4 bn people largely neglected by corporate strategists . This large group of emerging market citizens constitutes the base of the world 's economic pyramid ( BoP ) . And at 4 bn people , it is the world 's largest untapped consumer market . Looking forward to the world post the crisis , the BoP proposition is likely to become increasingly difficult for companies to ignore . The main reason for this is its size . Its 4 bn people make up over 60 % of the world 's population . This size effect is especially relevant when one considers the combined purchasing power of BoP citizens : Although the segment represents 4 bn people still living in relative poverty - earning less than USD 3,000 per year - their combined purchasing power amounts to no less than USD 5 trillion , according to the World Resources Institute . And if one notices that this figure of USD 5 trillion in purchasing power is at least comparable to the USD 12.5 trillion estimated for the wealthier emerging market segment ( incomes between USD 3,000 and USD 20,000 ) , it also seems probable that the BoP segment is likely to increasingly pop up on corporate radar screens as companies expand their quest for growth in the post-crisis world . But for all of its merits , investors should note that the BoP market segment does not come without its own unique challenges . For instance , the relative poverty of BoP citizens means that they spend over 80 % of their income on food , clothing , and fuel , leaving little to no income for other discretionary spending . Also , the BoP segment is still largely rurally located , with most people not yet having access to reliable credit facilities , telecommunication services , and some not even having access to electricity or clean water . These challenging conditions make gaining access to BoP consumers very challenging . The resulting isolation of BoP consumers has in turn imposed an even heavier cost on them - the so-called " poverty penalty . " This concept refers to the phenomenon that poor people living in regions isolated from the mainstream economic markets tend to pay a premium on everything from rice to credit - often 25 times that which the rich pay for the same services . This occurs mostly because the lack of market competition for goods and services in BoP regions allows marginal retailers to extract premium profits from low-income consumers who have fewer options and less-sophisticated consumer habits . A similar phenomenon can be traced back to the US as well as to Europe in the 1950s , when rural consumers paid a significant premium to urban consumers for basic goods - due mainly to their relative isolation from the mainstream , competitive economy existing in larger urban markets . So while multinationals could certainly offer their services to mitigate the poverty penalty , the overbearing risks and challenges inherent in BoP markets have meant that Western corporate entry has been more of an exception than a rule . But a few private companies have indeed successfully engaged the BoP markets . These companies typically adapt their strategies to allow them to offer BoP consumers products and services uniquely customized to their needs . Perhaps the most prominent example of a strategy uniquely fitted to the BoP context is the single-use packaging concept . According to this idea , companies develop small , single-use packages of products such as detergent , shampoo , and cooking oil that enable poor customers to buy a product that they otherwise may not have been able to afford . This strategy has already proved successful in many developing countries . In India , for example , Proctor & Gamble , Hindustan Lever , and other competitors already make single-serve versions of their products to the extent that this format already makes up 60 % of the Indian shampoo market and 95 % of all shampoo units sold in India . But single-use strategies are not the only creative approaches companies use to enter BoP markets . Other innovative strategies include the issuance of low-denomination telephone cards , shared-usage models for telephones , cars or other household items , and the extension of microcredits to people who would otherwise not qualify for access to financial and credit facilities . Through such strategies , companies are coming up with innovative ways of making products available to BoP consumers at affordable prices . Not only do these strategies unlock the BoP purchasing power , but they also expand local markets , reduce average product prices , and generally improve the standards of living in the local communities - setting in motion a virtuous cycle of grassroots human economic development . In the final analysis , and in the context of the global economy beginning to recover from what has been the worst recession in 70 years , we believe that any sustainable global recovery is likely to require a healthy and balanced growth in private demand from emerging market consumers . And as the balance of economic growth shifts from developed to emerging market consumers , multinational companies are likely to become increasingly aware of the potential and the promise at the base of the world 's economic pyramid .
number of fashionistas , shopping is actually a leisure pursuit to which the weekend is dedicated . The idea of going " gòuwù " - shopping - alone is alien to the Chinese . Material fortune is something to be shared with relatives and friends . Although China has a per capita income of only around 6,600 US dollars a year , even those on only a modest income will not hesitate to splash out on high-end products . Indulging in luxury is something that is found across all strata of urban society . It is not uncommon for a taxi driver who gets by on fairly limited earnings of 4,000 yuan ( around 700 dollars ) a month to nonetheless possess the very latest Nokia mobile phone in the upper price segment . Consumption is done differently here , as is thrift - which might manifest itself in day-to-day haggling with vegetable traders , for example . Shopping is writ large in Shanghai like in no other Chinese city . Here the country is already experiencing what will probably become reality all over the country in 10 years ' time : a consumer boom . While Beijing has a reputation for rather conservative political lobbying and Guangzhou has turned itself into the leading center of industrial production , Shanghai has used the Chinese economic miracle to establish itself at the forefront of consumerism . It is from Shanghai that almost all the retail industry 's global players have driven forward their Chinese expansion strategies . And nor do they look out of place - every imaginable international brand looks like it belongs in this metropolis on the Huangpu River , a city that is also home to the tallest buildings in China , the Chinese stock exchange , the world 's second-largest port , two airports , a Formula One race circuit and Expo 2010 . For the rich to flaunt their wealth is not vulgar but chic in China . This is readily confirmed by Jim Siano , CEO Asia Pacific of the luxury brand Montblanc : " Our clients are often entrepreneurs or company executives who are typically better educated than most of their fellow countrymen . But Chinese consumers generally have come a long way . " While high prices may conflict with China 's reputation as a country producing cheap goods , they certainly do n't act as a bar to the Chinese consumer . Quite the opposite : " In the last 20 years , Chinese consumers have spent a significant proportion of their monthly income on luxury products . High-quality luxury goods are truly prized in China , " observes Siano , a New Yorker by birth who has been scrutinizing the Chinese consumer intensively for the last two decades . Siano is impressed by the level of detail that the Chinese consumer will go to before purchasing a brand product : " For the Chinese , the origin of a product is very important , as is the brand and its history . They 'll do lots of research in order to learn more about the background - what a name stands for , where the strengths of a product lie - and only then will they make their buying decision . " An increasing number of Chinese can easily afford luxury articles like the watches , pens and leather goods that are sold by Montblanc in its 95 Chinese stores . The richest 10 percent of households in this country have experienced a quantum leap in wealth over the last few years . On average they currently earn 255 percent more than they did in 2005 , and now account for more than 35 percent of the total income of all Chinese households , although it is also true that almost all Chinese are better off than they were a few years ago . For the world 's luxury brands , the affluent Chinese represent a target group that is now increasingly exercising a decisive influence on the global market for high-end consumer goods . Jim Siano reaffirms the point : " Our store in Shanghai 's CITIC Square has been the largest of any of our stores in the world since it was opened in 2008 . However , we are now planning to increase the size of this outlet threefold . " An important factor for brand consumers is also the choice of location : " The Chinese luxury goods market is seeing a major drive toward much larger stores at leading retail locations . I 'm expecting much more competition in the retail industry , and between operators of shopping malls as well as between brands . " Even the financial situation of Chinese in the lower income brackets is undergoing " moderate growth . " The poorest 20 percent now earn more than half as much again as they did in 2005 . Those in the middle income brackets have seen their earnings rise by 98 percent over the same period , i.e. virtually doubling . This trend is likely to continue , as the savings rate in China is falling rapidly . Whereas consumers were still saving 26 percent of their income back in 2004 , the proportion of income set aside had declined to just 12 percent in 2009 , as established by the Consumer Survey of Credit Suisse . Consumption has a major future in China : As a result of the birth control policy introduced in 1980 , the vast majority of Chinese under the age of 30 are single children . The Chinese born in the 1980s and 1990s grew up as the focal point of attention for their family , and are now accordingly being targeted by brand producers as high-spending consumers with serious purchasing power . This generation of " Little Emperors " - as they are termed in Chinese - has enjoyed the strongest growth in income over the last three years , a position they will maintain over the next three years too . China 's real estate market is currently one of the world 's " hottest , " particularly in high-earning cities such as Shanghai and Beijing . One of the major drivers of the Chinese economic boom is the procurement and fitting-out of residential property . Urbanization is proceeding at breakneck speed in Zhongguo , or the " Middle Kingdom , " as the Chinese frequently term their own country : Credit Suisse is anticipating an annual growth rate in urbanization of 0.8 percent . This means that the 46 percent of Chinese who lived in urban areas in 2009 will rise to 60 percent by 2030 . Dramatic growth is expected in the medium-sized cities of central and western China in particular . In other words , some 190 million new Chinese urban residents will have to be provided for in terms of both infrastructure and residential space . Analysts at Credit Suisse are convinced that it is precisely these " new urban dwellers " who will drive the boom in consumption . This also goes hand in hand with the Chinese government 's goal of increasing domestic demand so as to reduce the country 's dependency on exports . The result ? Another massive surge in Chinese consumption . Dong Tao , an economist at Credit Suisse , expects this to undergo a quantum leap from 1.7 trillion dollars this year to 15.9 trillion dollars by 2020 . This would see China increase its proportion of global consumption from 5.2 percent in 2009 to 23.1 percent in 2020 , thereby leapfrogging the US to become the world 's largest consumer market . In a number of areas , the future is already very much in evidence . For example , China 's automotive market is already the world 's largest in terms of numbers of units . Since 2004 , the proportion of households owning a car has risen from 12 to 28 percent , i.e. more than doubling . But this proportion is set to rise further . In the Credit Suisse Consumer Survey 2009 , around 35 percent of households responded that they were either " definitely " or " probably " going to buy a new car within the next three years . For foreign automotive manufacturers , China is now the ultimate growth market , something that applies to German car brands above all . In the first five months of this year , Volkswagen Group China sold some 778,000 vehicles , a 48 percent rise on the record year of 2009 . Plans for the construction of the tenth Volkswagen factory in the Middle Kingdom - in the city of Foshan in the Pearl River Delta - are already at an advanced stage . In the first half of 2010 , Audi sold around 109,800 cars in China , 2,000 more than in its domestic market . BMW
2,500 IT specialists more each year . National Councilor Ruedi Noser , vice president of ICTswitzerland , would like to see the ICT professional training program " create more than 1,000 new apprenticeships " in Switzerland by 2015 , setting an ambitious goal for himself and his umbrella organization . The " ICT Professional Education Switzerland " program is intended to address deficiencies and shortcomings in professional education in the IT industry in Switzerland in a targeted manner . By analyzing current opportunities for professional education and summarizing them in a quantitative study , the umbrella organization ICTswitzerland is taking a first step toward laying the foundation for planning and implementing a long-term and comprehensive program for professional education in Switzerland . By the end of the year , existing regional organizations of IT technology employers and other stakeholders will work with ICTswitzerland to form a national professional organization recognized by the federal government that will ensure the long-term management , operation , and financing of professional education for IT under the terms of the new Professional Training Act . Andreas Kaelin , president of the Swiss IT Leadership Forum , will direct the program . In the initial phase of the program , CHF 1.5 million has been budgeted to launch the project , with half already on hand and the other half requested from the Federal Office for Professional Education and Technology ( BBT ) in mid-December . A foundation for ICT Professional Education in Switzerland , financed in large part by Credit Suisse , aims to promote and support professional education in IT throughout Switzerland . The foundation will make it possible to get the program underway immediately and provide half of the project financing . If the project is successful , Credit Suisse will invest up to CHF 10 million in the foundation over the medium term . The goal is to find additional sponsors for the foundation , which is still in the process of being established , and to finance other projects in the area of ICT professional education . ICTswitzerland is pleased to have Credit Suisse , a leading IT organization in the financial industry in Switzerland and around the world , as a key partner in this project . With more than 4,000 IT employees in Switzerland , Credit Suisse is one of the largest and most important employers and partners in the IT industry . Credit Suisse 's efforts to highlight the significance of the IT labor market and increase its attractiveness are an ideal fit with the dedicated work ICTswitzerland does on behalf of ICT professional education in Switzerland . The close cooperation between Credit Suisse and ICTswitzerland has been bolstered even further with the nomination of Karl Landert , CIO at Credit Suisse , to the ICTswitzerland Executive Board . Credit Suisse itself is affected by the shortage of IT specialists in Switzerland - as are most financial services providers in the country . As Karl Landert , CIO at Credit Suisse , notes , " We ca n't hire as many IT specialists as we would like , and we are currently seeking ambitious and focused professionals , particularly in application software development . We want to help highlight the significance of the IT labor market and increase its attractiveness - which will help us maintain the level of prosperity in Switzerland . Furthermore , a basic condition for continued economic success is a well-trained workforce , including IT employees . This is vital for Credit Suisse , as almost every fourth job at the bank is an IT job . However , financial firms are not alone - companies in every sector and of every size , from SMEs to large firms , need more IT specialists . The IT professional education project therefore seeks to meet the needs of all stakeholders and thus provide added value to the entire economy .
opposites as India - not least in terms of the gulf between rich and poor . According to the latest survey by US magazine Forbes , the number of billionaires has grown from 24 to 50 in a year . And the group of the top five richest people in the world includes two Indians : Mukesh Ambani ( 29 billion US dollars ) and Lakshmi Mittal ( 28.7 billion US dollars ) . However , the World Bank estimates that more than 40 percent of India 's population live below the poverty line - which is an income of less than 1.25 dollars per capita per day . Due to extensive poverty amongst the rural population , every day sees thousands leave to try their luck in the cities - particularly Mumbai , where around 20 million people live in the metropolitan district , and New Delhi with its 18 million or so people . No precise figures are available . The last official census took place in 2001 , and every day thousands of new rural refugees stream into the metropolises , initially landing up on the street and then in the slums that are springing up everywhere in the big cities . In total , India currently has 34 cities with more than one million inhabitants . Owing to the high level of poverty amongst the rural population , thousands flee the countryside every day to try their luck in the cities . Because of this influx , India 's one-million-plus metropolises - the country currently has 34 of them - are bursting at the seams . Indeed the current problem of scarce infrastructure resources was the first issue to be addressed on Credit Suisse 's seventh field trip , which was hosted by Arthur Vayloyan , Head of Investment Services and Products in the Private Banking division . Various government agencies anticipate that investments of around USD 500 billion will be needed in the next few years to meet the vast pent-up demand in the transportation sector ( roads , bridges , tunnels , etc. ) as well as in energy , gas and water supply . According to the first guest speaker , Bidisha Ganguly , in Delhi , it is also clear that : " The center of worldwide growth has shifted eastward , in particular to China and India . " Head of the Research Department at the Confederation of Indian Industry in New Delhi , she presented an overview of the biggest challenges in the field of infrastructure and made no bones about the fact that many of these projects are often held up by political and bureaucratic obstacles . The fact that road-building remains heavily dependent on manual labor , not least on the part of women , is evidenced on the coach trip to Noida . " At the end of the day , we 've got to employ the masses of our population somehow , " says the Indian travel guide . Noida is short for New Okhla Industrial Development Authority . Planned in the 1970s , this new industrial city to the east of New Delhi is now home to around two million people . One of the companies that located there in the 1980s is Moser Baer . It was originally a joint venture with Swiss firm Moser Baer in Sumiswald , though the Swiss are no longer involved . Moser Baer in India is the world 's second largest manufacturer of optical storage media such as CDs , as well as all types of DVD through to Blu-ray discs with up to 25 gigabytes storage capacity , which are then sold under a wide variety of labels . In 2005 , based on synergies in production technology , the technology firm also moved into the manufacturing of photovoltaic solar cells . This was followed in 2006 by the manufacturing and distribution of own-brand home entertainment products and some home electronics products such as headphones , DVD players , and optical computer mice . Moser Baer employs more than 7,000 people at four sites in India . In discussions with Moser Baer 's CEO , conversation inevitably turned to the pros and cons of India versus China as a destination for manufacturing . Abhinav Kanchan , the firm 's Head of Corporate Communications , cited the developing market and business environment , broad support on the part of the government , higher education standards , and above all the benefits of the English language - spoken very well by large sections of the educated population . The second site visit took the group west of Delhi to the industrial area of Gurgaon . This is where , on December 14 , 1983 , India 's first modern passenger car rolled off the production line : the Maruti 800 . Maruti was established by the Indian government in 1981 as a joint venture with Suzuki . Today , it is 54-percent owned by the Japanese auto maker . India is the world 's 12th largest vehicle manufacturer . Around 11 million two , three and four-wheeled vehicles are produced here . Suzuki Maruti is by far the largest manufacturer of cars . With 722,144 cars sold in 2008/2009 , its share of the domestic market amounted to 55 percent . At the same time , nearly 100,000 vehicles go to export - in particular the A-Star mini-car launched two years ago , which is sold in Europe under the Alto name . Suzuki Maruti CFO Ajay Seth is convinced India will become an even more important production location for parent company Suzuki : " For instance , we are also set to become the first site outside Japan to have its own R & D operation . That enables us to respond more quickly to a booming domestic market . " A visit to the production plant itself revealed an efficiently functioning manufacturing line with a relatively high proportion of manual labor . Suzuki Maruti employs around 7,500 people at two sites , with Seth proudly emphasizing that its workers have worked at Maruti for 15 years on average - a testament to the good working conditions . A worker who has been with the firm for 10 years will earn around 600 dollars a month . After the visit to Suzuki Maruti , the trip continued to Mumbai . Though New Delhi is the capital and only marginally smaller at 18 million people , for most Indians it is overshadowed by Mumbai . This giant metropolis , squeezed into a peninsula on the country 's west coast , is to Indians what Los Angeles is to Americans : The city of dreams , the story of rags to riches , where Bollywood makes stars out of simple girls from the country , where India 's financial center is housed , and where all major world groups have their offices with all their well-paid jobs . For traffic planners , however , Mumbai is more like the city of nightmares . On the streets , it 's pure chaos . Up to 1995 the city was known as Bombay , and for most locals it still is . But since then it has officially at least borne the name of the goddess of the Koli fisher folk . Every day , around six million people commute downtown from the suburbs in overcrowded trains . Trains arrive at Mumbai 's venerable Victoria Terminus every 45 seconds . In the evenings , people gather in their thousands on the sweeping sandy beaches to enjoy the sunset over the Arabian Sea . The ocean is too polluted to swim in - ‏ but that does n't bother anyone . Indian industrial conglomerate Tata could be about to bring a new era of mobility to India 's roads . Positioned right at the bottom of the price scale , Tata 's Nano car aims to close the wide gap between motorized two-wheelers and the current cheapest car . " The potential is vast ; every year around 10 million two-wheelers are sold in India , " says Virat Khullar , Brand Manager with Tata Nano Car . But rather than focus on the urban population , Tata has its sights set on the lower middle classes in rural areas . For 2,500 dollars they 'll get space for four people , protection from the wind and rain , as well as the latest safety standards . The firm has produced a small , bubble-shaped car with four doors , a 35 horsepower two-cylinder engine under the rear seat and some storage room above . It will reach a top speed of around 100 km/h , and consume about 4.5 liters of gasoline every 100 km . On a test drive , the super-affordable car proved surprisingly spacious and the equipment - whilst very basic - was user-friendly . It is still too
down to earth and set fire to a pile of wood with his blazing cargo . But fire anyway found its way to earth - and most likely it was through a bolt of lightning . Without this provider of heat , our fore-fathers would have remained in the " warm zones " of the Earth and would never have been in a position to migrate northward . Nor would the melting of metal and the firing of clay have been possible . It was as early as 100 B.C. that the Greek physicist Heron of Alexandria described a form of propulsion which relied on steam as its source of energy . The decisive breakthrough , however , fell to Scottish engineer James Watt , who improved the steam engine design by English inventor Thomas Newcomen and had his own design patented in 1769 . Indeed , it was the serial manufacturing of steam engines that marked the beginning of the Industrial Revolution . It was thanks to the use of steam power that locomotives could be built , a development that at a stroke changed the entire nature of human transportation and thereby had a decisive influence on the economy . Crude oil has been one of the most important suppliers of energy to human civilization ever since industrialization . Without the " black gold , " things just do n't work . The first ever crude oil refinery dates back to 1859 , when the American Edwin Drake extracted substantial quantities of oil from the ground via a drilling procedure . When the electric light bulb was introduced , oil initially lost its appeal . But when the automobile was invented , it reannounced itself with a vengeance , as this new form of transportation made gas ( for the Americans ) or petrol ( for the British ) a highly sought-after commodity . Ever since , it has been difficult to imagine living without this source of energy . More than a third of the world 's energy requirement is met by oil , making it the undisputed number-one energy commodity . Although oil is very practical and easy to use at its final point of consumption , be it for heating or for automotive refueling purposes , transporting it to the end consumer is not unproblematic . This is brought home to us time and again whenever an oil tanker accident makes the headlines . One of the greatest tanker catastrophes in Europe occurred on December 12 , 1999 , when the single-hulled tanker Erika , sailing under the Maltese flag with a cargo comprising 30,000 metric tons ( 33,069 tons ) of heavy oil , broke apart in heavy seas just off the coast of Brittany . As a result , 400 kilometers ( 249 miles ) of coastline were polluted and around 75,000 birds perished in the unforgiving oil slick . But on April 20 , 2010 , an event occurred that dwarfed the horror of any tanker accident . The Deepwater Horizon oil platform exploded following an uncontrolled oil leakage and sank promptly . The subsequent pollution in the Gulf of Mexico caused by the leaking of oil on the seabed at a depth of 1,500 meters ( 0.9 miles ) led to the worst environmental catastrophe of its type in the US . Following the accident , just under 10 million liters ( 63,000 barrels ) of oil is believed to have spewed out into the sea in the first three months alone . But as colossal as this oil pollution may sound , the oil spill of these first three months would cover precisely one hour of mankind 's current global oil requirement . Even though this oil spill dominated the headlines around the world for a long period of time , it would be a great mistake to believe that large amounts of oil are only released into the sea as a result of tanker accidents or spectacular disasters of the Deepwater Horizon type . The oil that leaks out in numerous places around the world due to ramshackle drill heads and leaky pipelines adds up to a quite staggering tonnage . A sad chapter in this respect is the history of oil drilling in the Niger delta . For the last 50 years , foreign multinationals have been busy extracting Nigerian oil in this area as it is extremely easy to refine . Experts estimate that approximately two billion liters of oil has so far flowed into the Niger delta as a result . Every year this leads to oil pollution on a par with the Exxon Valdez tanker accident . As a result of this notorious incident back in 1989 , in which 40,000 metric tons of oil was released into the sea , 2,000 kilometers of unspoiled regional coastline in Alaska was polluted . Together with wind power , hydropower is one of the oldest applied forms of energy . Back in antiquity , the Greeks and the Romans used water wheels for the milling of flour . In the Middle Ages , large water wheels made of wood were used to power machinery in mines , smithy workshops , sawmills , grinding factories and cloth-fulling mills . Hydropower also played a crucial role in the development of the first industrial towns of Europe and the US . The first hydropower stations for generating electricity were built in 1880 in Northumberland in the North of England . The techniques used in major hydroelectric power stations today may have been perfected , but conceptually they have changed little , with various types of turbines and generators still used to produce electricity . Around a quarter of the world 's entire supply of energy is generated through hydropower . Water is , after all , clean and natural . But the hunger for electricity leads to the building of ever-larger reservoirs and ever more productive power stations , which has its costs . Although we know far more nowadays about the consequences of major dams , they continue to be built on an ever-larger scale . For example , the Three Gorges Dam in China is one of the largest river dams anywhere in the world . Work on its construction began on December 14 , 1994 , with a workforce numbering up to 18 , 000 . The project involved the impoundment of the Yangtze river , and the body of the dam was finally completed on May 20 , 2006 . This resulted in the creation of a reservoir near the three gorges of Qutang , Wuxia , and Xiling . With a total length of 6,380 kilometers , the Yangtze river is the longest river in China and the third-longest in the world . This colossal project has inevitably led to the elimination of entire towns as well as countless villages , farms and factories . In total , just under two million people have to be relocated as part of the project . Nuclear power stations have played an important role in energy generation since the 1960s . The process of nuclear fission was first discovered in 1938 by the German chemists Otto Hahn und Friedrich Wilhelm Strassmann . The splitting of atoms leads to the release of heat energy that can then be converted into electrical energy by means of turbines and a generator . That process typically involves the fission of the radioactive heavy metal uranium , which is stored in the nuclear reactor 's fuel rods . One kilogram of uranium is enough to produce 350,000 kWh of electricity . This figure can vary a lot , as it depends on the degree of isotopic enrichment and the efficiency of the nuclear power station . By contrast , a kilogram of oil releases about 12 kWh and produces about 5 kWh . The proportion of global energy generation accounted for by nuclear power currently amounts to around 16 percent . Germany generates 23 percent of its energy from nuclear power , Switzerland 39 percent . Whereas in the early days of atomic energy nuclear power stations were seen as clean , efficient and cost-effective , this confidence was badly rocked by the reactor disaster at Chernobyl on April 26 , 1986 . Some 600,000 people were exposed to strong radioactive emissions as a result of this accident . The exact number of fatalities is not known even today , but is likely to have reached several thousands . Another major headache for nuclear power stations is the final disposal of the radioactive waste that poses a threat to mankind for almost an eternity . Plutonium-239 , for example , has a half-life of 24,110 years - in other words , its radioactive emissions only halve in potency once this period has elapsed . Without the power of wind in a ship 's sails , it is likely that the discovery of America
electricity - hurdles related to time , technology and finance . The Lampo2 from Protoscar SA in Rovio ( TI ) is not meant to be a series-production vehicle . Its purpose is to show what can already be achieved , given the will - an impressive demonstration of what is possible . As a prototype , the Lampo2 is suitable for everyday traffic and ready to drive . The first Protoscar Lampo was launched to international acclaim at the 2009 Geneva Motor Show . Since then , it has met with broad smiles and admiration on 12,000 test kilometers . Its successor , the Lampo2 , restates Managing Director Marco Piffaretti 's message : " We aim to show that electric mobility is more than a niche solution . Electric drive is more efficient and even more fun . " The Lampo2 is also a demonstration of Swiss innovation . Its key components were produced here by Swiss companies . Take an example : Batteries , electric engines , chargers and performance electronics were all supplied by Brusa Elektronik AG in Sennwald ( SG ) - a global leader in the provision of high-tech electric vehicle components . The Lampo2 is a two-seater sports car weighing in at 1.6 tons . The car has one electric engine at the front axle and one at the rear axle , i.e. four-wheel drive . It now has 408 hp compared with the 268 hp generated by its predecessor . At 640 newton meters , the torque is excellent - even higher than a high-volume V8 gas engine . This impressive show of power is produced right from the very first rotation of both electric engines ( approximately 4,500 /min ) - a typical advantage of electric cars . Like all electric vehicles , the Lampo2 requires only one gear . The driving performance is equally impressive . It takes only five seconds to reach 100 km/h , the maximum speed is 200 km/h . Nonetheless , the Lampo2 is said to travel for approximately 200 kilometers on the electricity from two lithium ion batteries , each providing 16 kWh power . The pioneering charging system has four charging modes . The Lampo2 can be charged " normally " in twelve hours using a domestic socket , with double the current ( i.e. twice as quickly ) at public stations and with triple the current using industrial connections . The fourth mode is used if you 're in a hurry . In only ten minutes , the car is charged with enough electricity to drive for one hundred kilometers using an external quick-charge system . The world premiere of the Lampo2 will take place at e'mobile 's stand in Geneva . The presentation will be rounded off with innovative approaches to charge systems . Credit Suisse is sponsoring the project because we believe it necessary to invest in innovations and sustainable technologies and because we are aware of our responsibility as a company .
already holds 32 percent of global household wealth , and we 're likely to see this share of the pie growing rapidly . " The discussions at the fourth meeting of the Credit Suisse Research Institute were based on the Credit Suisse Global Wealth Report , which was published in early October 2010 . While Forbes and other magazines limit their focus to " rich lists , " the Global Wealth Report examined the development of household wealth over the last 10 years in more than 200 countries . " This is the first report that looks at the wealth of all of the world 's 4.4 billion adults . It looks in detail at the composition of all assets of all households in the world , " states Michael O'Sullivan , Head of UK Research and Asset Allocation , who is one of the authors responsible for the report . The Global Wealth Report also looks at social structures that influence wealth distribution and takes account of demographical changes , gender issues , and urbanization trends . One of the interesting features in the Global Wealth Report is the wealth pyramid . " There are 1 billion adults in the middle segment of the pyramid , holding wealth between USD 10,000 and USD 100,000 , " Giles Keating points out . " That is an enormous opportunity in terms of growing consumer markets . " Finding these opportunities in the near term while looking at long-term opportunities at the same time , was the aim of this meeting . " We 're looking at mid-range and some upper-end products that we believe people across the Asian markets , Latin America , and countries like Turkey or Indonesia will want to consume . " The Research Institute expects the spending power of adults in the middle of the wealth pyramid to grow as their wealth and income rise . " This is an opportunity for companies in those countries as well as for multinational companies in Europe and America . " While leading markets such as the US , Europe and Japan had to struggle through the financial crisis , emerging markets like China and India simply reacted to the outside shocks . David Mulford , former US Ambassador to India , sees major potential in the Indian market : " You have to remember that India is not very export dependent . It has a huge internal private sector , and 60 percent of its population is under 30 years old . " This group , he is convinced , is going to be a dynamic economic driver . Asia expert Urs Schoettli sees the background of the Asian dynamism in recent political developments : " Chinese who are 40 years or younger , for example , are the first generation that has not witnessed or feared a political crisis such as war or revolution . It is the first post-war generation , and they are more interested in prestige and consumption than in saving for difficult times . " Besides being the first consumer generation , many young people in the emerging economies are among the first in their families to pursue a higher education and earn a good salary . Former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom , Sir John Major , asserts : " Young Europeans will have to recognize that the competition from Latin America and Asia is going to be intense . Young people in these countries are determined to succeed . They look back on the chasm of poverty they were able to escape , and they have no desire to fall back into it . "
slowed substantially in recent decades , accompanied by higher life expectancy and lower birth rates . In 2030 , Switzerland will have a population of 7.9 million . By then , it is unlikely that the majority of the population will still be " truly " Swiss . Population growth continues to slow In 1964 the average woman had 2.68 children . However , the advent of the contraceptive pill reduced this rate to 1.5 children by the middle of the 1970s . Today , the fertility rate for Swiss women is 1.3 children , and by 2030 it will have declined further to 1.2 . In order to maintain a steady population , however , an average of 2.1 children is required per woman , a figure that is very close to the current fertility rate for non-Swiss women living in Switzerland . The highest birth rate is found in Appenzell Innerrhoden , with an average of 1.86 children per woman . Both men and women can also look forward to a longer life . The average life expectancy for men will increase from 76.7 to 81.8 years , while that for women will increase from 82.6 to 87.1 years . Switzerland thus has one of the world 's highest life expectancies , after Sweden and Japan . Dependency burden in Swiss cantons 2000-2030 The distance between home and work is growing The differences in population changes in the cantons largely reflect geographical phenomena such as the contrast between towns and the countryside and the growing distance between home and the workplace . Today , the cities are the real driving forces behind economic growth and , with their surrounding conurbations , are home to almost two thirds of Switzerland 's population . In cantons with large cities such as Zurich , value creation is generally much higher than income . The reason for this is the relatively large flow of commuters from other cantons . These people work in the major economic centres and thus generate value there . By contrast , incomes are much higher than added value where a significant number of commuters work outside the canton . Household income in Swiss cantons 1999-2004 Cantons offering the highest location quality and good transport links Cantons Zug , Zurich , Nidwalden and Schwyz have the highest location quality . The relatively low level of personal taxation is a key factor which is common to all four . In coming years these cantons will also have the highest rates of growth in private household income . All of them profit from having high-income age classes and a high employment ratio . Location Quality Indicator for Swiss cantons 2001 Cities are the main engines of growth Population changes in cantons Zug , Zurich and Schwyz , as well as Nidwalden , Basel-Land and Aargau , exemplify the pulling power of a nearby urban centre coupled with increased mobility . Geneva and Fribourg can also expect above-average growth . By contrast , demographic expansion will be weak in cantons Berne , Uri , Schaffhausen , Neuchâtel , Glarus and Jura . Glarus , Uri , Basel-City and Appenzell Ausserrhoden will see the sharpest population falls . More peripheral areas are thus lagging further and further behind , and this is also reflected in the sharp differences between rates of growth in household income .
has to do with the inflation pressure we already experience in the emerging markets such as China or India . Fears of interest rate hikes can also function as a drag on the emerging markets on a temporary basis . But from a structural standpoint , we 're extremely convinced that the emerging market story is definitely not over , as so many structural advantages will lead to a strategic outperformance . Our recommendation would be to buy into phases of neutral or underperformance of the emerging markets . Definitely by a broad-based approach . We should not talk only about emerging market equities . Given the constructive cycle we are in , equities are definitely the place to be , but we should not forget emerging market debt and . local currencies . Structural advantages such as healthy ratios of debt to GDP , visible foreign currency reserves , fewer banking problems and visible demographic advantages will lead to a strategic outperformance . No , definitely not . When we go for investments into emerging market equities and bonds , we want to give the clear recommendation also to focus on local currencies , because all the structural advantages just described . When we talk about our benchmark exposure , we are already at an emerging market quota of more than 10 percent . In normal market cycles , we can easily recommend to go for 20 percent emerging market exposure . I would definitely not talk about a bubble in the emerging markets nor about overheating , because there are clear structural elements underpinning the emerging market story . Of course , it could be that with regard to capital flows , this will be a crowded trade for a while . But what 's extremely important is that more and more strategic investors are coming to the table . This means that the money is not so fast flowing in and out . Given the fact that many investors now are strategically oriented , this means they are also integrating the emerging markets into the benchmark . We clearly expect that volatility in the emerging markets will be lower compared to the past . So in a broad-based comparison , we expect that the risk return ratio of emerging market investments will further improve in the future . We are also positive on commodities , because of the current stage of the cycle we are in. We made a strong call to buy real assets such as commodities , given the fact that we are now on a normalization path from a macroeconomic standpoint.The pendulum is swinging away from deflation threats to reflation and then to inflation . We are quite confident that there will be an outperformance of real assets in next decade . So we are structurally positive on commodities and would recommend taking every opportunity in phases of weakness , to extend or to increase exposure into commodities such as industrial metals , soft commodities , energy and precious metals .
status by the end of 2011 . As a potential EU candidate country since 2003 , Serbia formally applied for membership in 2009 . Domestically , the goal of EU membership has enjoyed broad political and popular support . According to a recent survey by Serbia 's official European Integration Office , 53 percent of citizens would support EU membership if a referendum were to be held in the near future . Even if the number of supporters declined from around 70 percent compared to five years ago , still only 24 percent would vote against the move . The belief that membership would be beneficial is predominant among Serbian people ( 43 percent versus 23 percent ) and far more prevalent in comparison to Croatia , where a recent Eurobarometer survey indicated that just 27 percent of respondents regarded EU membership as beneficial . Between 2000 and 2008 , Serbia 's real GDP expanded on average by more than 5 percent annually , mainly driven by the non-tradable sectors . As a consequence , a wide current account deficit emerged , essentially due to the external trade imbalance . The deficit was financed by capital inflows and to a large extent foreign direct investment . As the global economic crisis hit in 2008 , Serbia 's growth model proved to be unsustainable . The large imbalance between the internal and external sector led the current account deficit to widen further , reaching 20 percent of GDP by the end of 2008 . The large downside risks prompted a Stand-By Arrangement with the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) in January 2009 , which initiated a structural transformation of the economy from consumption-driven to export-led growth . So far , these reforms have been partly successful . In 2010 , Serbia 's GDP grew by 1.8 percent , driven to a large extent by external demand . The IMF forecasts further GDP growth of 3 percent in 2011 and at least 5 percent in 2012 . Nevertheless , high inflation and elevated unemployment are continuing to weigh on domestic demand . Additionally , the recent surge in portfolio inflows has put appreciation pressure on the Serbian Dinar , thus threatening Serbia 's competitiveness in an export-led recovery phase . Given the structure of the Serbian economy , there is good reason for both the government and the business sector to equate EU membership with prosperity . The future success of Serbia 's economy is directly linked to export growth and crucially dependant on facilitated access to the European market . In addition , the prospect of EU integration creates the foundation for the development of more mature financial markets . The strong performance of the Serbian equity market has recently drawn the attention of investors . With a return of over 40 percent between January 2001 and June 2011 , the MSCI Serbia has outperformed most regional peers as well as the MSCI Frontier Market index , of which it is a constituent . Cross-border acquisitions may provide an incentive for local companies to list on the local stock market , which is still characterized by low liquidity and high volatility .
any broader common issuance is very unlikely at this time , despite the obvious longer term benefits . This is exactly the problem that makes them politically less viable as an option . From the perspective of the stronger countries , the ones that would be providing the credit to back these issuants , the big benefit potentially is that the risk to their financial systems would be reduced from their own banks ' holding of these bonds . However , I think that in the minds of the politicians and possibly the public this risk is not big enough to warrant such a large political step to common euro zone issuance . So while there are advantages for the stronger countries , the amount of fiscal sovereignty that must be given up is still too large to be considered at this point . The future of the euro is intensely linked to the resolution of the euro zone debt crisis . That being said , our view is that although we do n't have a grand and instant solution like a common government bond issuance , the euro zone will hold together . The reasoning for that is precisely because while we face these increasing problems we do have policy response , we have the Stabilization Fund , and , going forward , I believe we will continue to see more of these steps to address immediate liquidity and even solvency issues . It 's this combination of fiscal improvement and ongoing support from the centre that enables us to slowly move towards a stronger fiscal centralization together , even without taking that ultimate step of a common issuance at this point . That , I think , is positive for the euro in terms of stability for the medium to long term . Right now we are in a consolidation phase . The dollar has been remarkable in its inability to benefit from the recent market instability we have seen globally . We 're used to the dollar rallying when other markets are volatile , such as the equity market recently , but that 's been remarkably absent this time . The euro has also held up very well thus far . There 's been a bit of weakness in some of the emerging markets , and some of the commodity-related currencies have softened , but this has all been quite moderate , reflecting a stable situation at current prices . There is also a risk that we will see some dollar strength in the near term , driven by any ongoing instability , particularly if we do n't get any promises of new softer monetary policy steps from the US . In general though , I think we 're going to hold quite stable ranges for the next couple of months . Truly dramatic . The bond market , for example , which has really been the area of interest , has had a dramatic decline in benchmark bond yields around the world , led by the US . This has been driven by an increase in fears of recession on the one hand , and related to that , the possibility in people 's minds that if recession probability increases the Fed ultimately may respond . If that 's the case , it could mean maturity of the Fed 's operations is extended in terms of adding liquidity , which would have a very depressing influence on bond yields . There 's also been tremendous volatility in the equity market . We 've seen a big correction from the recent highs and considerable volatility since then , and the outlook is still uncertain . Not really at all . Japan 's credit rating was also recently downgraded by one of the rating agencies and equally there was very little or almost no impact . The yen actually strengthened on the day , not directly related to the downgrade but by coincidence . You can see that the market is not attaching a lot of significance to these ratings decisions . The big rally in US bonds really occurred alongside the downgrade , not because of it , and I think that will continue to be the case . There 's no doubt the market recognizes that fiscally the deterioration is there , but that 's been recognized for quite a long time and the rating agencies , to some degree , are a bit behind the curve in this sense . We have a very delicate balance in the global economy at the moment . We have ongoing , very simulative monetary policy , which is good for the outlook , and we have very strong growth coming from emerging markets , which have been the powerful engine keeping the global economy strong over the last couple of years . But against that we have some withdrawal , both today and prospectively , of fiscal stimulus and some of the most recent leading indicators have been quite weak . While that reflects the normal to and fro of the cycle , it also raises a tremendous amount of risk . In general , we view the global economic outlook still relatively constructively and have an optimistic opinion that emerging markets will continue to drive global demand , that there will be further rebalancing of growth and that US monetary policy will remain extremely stimulative . However , US unemployment remains quite sticky and Europe 's debt crisis is an issue that affects consumer and business sentiment . But generally we think no recession and a gradually constructive outlook .
minutes , the man has reached his workplace , 60 meters up , and starts his maintenance task . " There 's no reason why anyone should still have to climb an 80- or 100-meter-high pylon , " says Andreas Maurer , founder and CEO of HighStep Systems AG . " In the past , there were only two ways of getting to elevated workplaces : a ladder or a pre-installed lift . Ladders are dangerous and inconvenient , and conventional lifts are expensive . Our systems offer safe and cost-effective alternatives . " Safety is important to Maurer , as the idea for his business came to him after his father had fallen from a ladder in the garden eight years previously . " We asked ourselves why there were no really safe ladders even though many people have to work in elevated locations like electricity pylons or wind turbines , " explains the graduate engineer . The result of these deliberations was the foundation of HighStep Systems in 2007 and a short time later the development of a climbing system that outperforms traditional ladders in more than just safety . Another key advantage is ergonomic : The new system facilitates comfortable working positions and thus reduces fatigue . The user stands upright , does not have to work with stretched arms , can choose his own step length , and can rest safely at all times . " Industry has recognized these advantages , because it is suffering from a particular demographic trend : Young technicians are becoming rarer , while older technicians often suffer from knee or back problems . In the case where the climbing element is removed , technicians are able to work longer , " explains Maurer . The key feature of the HighStep system is an aluminum rail which is securely connected to the structure along its entire length . The mobile climbing equipment - either the basic model with which the technician propels himself or the lift - is then attached to this rail . The latter is the world 's first portable lift . " TÜV certification of our lift , which we expect to receive in the near future , will trigger the second big growth spurt for us , " declares a confident Maurer . To keep investments to a minimum , the company does not produce its products , but relies on outsourcing partners : The rails are supplied by German company Aluminium-Werke Wutöschingen AG , and the other components are made by Faes AG of Switzerland . At present , the key markets for HighStep systems are electricity pylons and wind turbines - both new and pre-existing structures . " We are the only company that can retrofit lifts to existing structures , " explains the CEO . This means that the company has a very promising market . In Europe alone , there are over a million electricity pylons and around 72,000 wind turbines . And both of these markets are growing . As the electricity network is extended , the number of pylons increases ; and the demand for new energy sources is generating annual growth of over 20 percent in the field of wind power . The potential is even greater if one considers the international markets . Yet that 's something that this small business with just ten employees is not yet able to cope with . " For capacity reasons , we are still reacting cautiously to inquiries from China and India . But that will change in time , " says the CEO . He 's thinking not just about expanding geographically but also about new business lines . HighStep systems could also be used in high-rack warehouses or on cranes , lampposts , tall buildings , and oil or gas tankers . The team is already considering new product types that could be attached to the rails , a materials transporter for example , or a robot that could be fitted with cameras to perform monitoring functions . Despite its brief history , the company can already look back on a number of milestones . In 2008 , one year after it was founded , the first major client to commit to the climbing system was Axpo . Others followed , and in 2010 alone , HighStep Systems fitted its system on more than 1,000 pylons - generating a few millions in revenues in the process . Four patents have also been registered worldwide . " Besides all that , we have secured finance to help us grow - thanks not least to SVC - Ltd . , " says Andreas Maurer . " SVC - Ltd . provided a loan and has also helped with business development , marketing , and finding partners in specific countries . " The biggest challenges so far have been the economic situation in Europe , particularly . Like most SMEs , HighStep Systems has been affected by the financial crisis and the strength of the Swiss franc . The fear of a recession and the ongoing pressure on costs have tended to make clients more cautious . Nevertheless , Maurer is looking forward to the future with confidence : " Although the operating environment is set to remain difficult in the short term , the growing focus on safety at work and society 's demographic problems will ensure that our revenues will rise in the mid- to long-term . If we can exploit the potential of this market , we could see revenues of 100 or 200 million Swiss francs . "
: Rural and urban , farmer and industrial worker , young person and old person ? It turns out that social networks like Twitter , and also traditional television , are a way to mobilize . In the campaign where President Obama came from being an unknown to President of the United States he was able to make use of the medium in ways no one else had figured out . Social networks have become a very important part of messaging , of outreach , communicating with constituents , of defining yourself , of discussing policy . However at the same time they can be used to spread distruths . You can say something that becomes viral overnight and it is simply not true . To undo that you have to create a viral spread in the other direction . But we 're learning how this medium will be used in the political process and we 've seen both good and disturbing examples of it . The role of advertising and money in campaigns is linked to this . In the US we spend a lot of money on campaigns and they 're years in the making . Therefore , the medium will become more important in societies where there 's a long electoral cycle and a lot of money in the process . They have the ability to be used in positive and negative ways and we should think of them as facilitators : you can facilitate good and bad things . Take the uprisings in the Middle East for example : facilitating discontent and bringing people together to move those regimes , you could argue , was a positive effect . However , now those regimes have to be rebuilt . That takes time , patience and continued bringing together of people with diverse interests . Whether a social medium will help in that regard is an open question . Further , we know from behavioral economics that people tend to join a herd . We sign onto something because others do . We believe something without looking at the evidence because our friends do . You could see how a social network could exacerbate those tendencies : You get overconfident because you use a network with people who think like you do , you do n't question . There 's a value of diversity in decision making in organizations and the more the social network is focused on people with similar opinions , the less diversity you get . That is a negative effect . The situation in China is interesting . It has a very active blogging community but it 's quite controlled in many respects . If people want to complain about a local official they can , and actively do . There are cases where local officials have lost their authority because of complaints . People also complain about consumer products and safety standards . There 's also a huge amount of nationalism in China , where anti-Japan attitudes are largely reflected in blogs or social networks . That could put pressure on the authorities to undertake an activity which is n't really the right public policy . The Chinese experience indicates that you can control parts , while keeping certain parts free and open . In the US , the general presumption is that everything should be open ; everyone should be able to say anything they want . The concern there is about distorted and untruthful information that does not determine the source . Yes , it 's something you hear about and decide to join . But particularly in China , and to a lesser extent in the US , active users are also using it for entertainment and gaming , not generally for political reasons . They 're also using it for their friends . Studies by anthropologists suggest that most people have about 150 people in their real network , whose names and connection they can remember . So while on Facebook you may post a lot of information , you 're really only interacting with ten people , not 300 . Exactly . I 've also heard discussions about whether Facebook makes you narcissistic , because who cares about your photos or what you did this morning ? You do , but you 're presuming that hundreds of others do as well . It 's wonderful to speculate about this now . Social networks are so new that we do n't know the answers to most of these questions . We do know you have to pay attention to it and we do know we 're in a transition .
seen during the recent recession , however . Yet the 14 percent drop in Swiss goods exports in 2009 was below-average by international standards . US exports were down around 19 percent year-on year , with all the other countries that were analyzed experiencing a decline of more than 20 percent ( Italy : -25 percent ; UK : -24 percent ; Germany : -23 percent ; France : -22 percent ) . This less sharp decline during the recession meant that Swiss exports returned to their pre-crisis level comparatively quickly . An important reason for the Swiss export industry 's resistance to crisis is the sector portfolio , which is less volatile than that of Germany , France , Italy , the UK , or the US . Switzerland 's below-average volatility is mainly the result of the high weighting of the relatively non-cyclical pharmaceutical industry and the small share of vehicle manufacturing in Swiss exports . The remaining sectors account for a fairly similar share of total exports for Switzerland and the other countries included in the comparison ; on this account , therefore , there are no specific advantages or disadvantages in terms of Switzerland 's ability to withstand crisis . As a small , open economy , Switzerland is more vulnerable than most to external shocks . Keeping its dependence on individual countries to a minimum is a good means of reducing its vulnerability . However , our analysis shows that Switzerland has room for improvement on this score . Although all sectors are better diversified than the average for the OECD countries , they still lag behind their competitors in the main neighboring countries , as well as the UK and the US . The need to catch up is particularly great in the medical technology and metal industries , while the pharmaceuticals and watch industries boast better geographical diversification . Broad geographical diversification not only helps in terms of capitalizing on growth sources in as many countries as possible but also creates a natural hedge against currency fluctuations . The high quality of Swiss exports is likely to have had a positive influence on the country 's resistance to crisis . In our research , we use the average price of the goods per unit of weight ( kilogram ) - the unit value - as indicator of the quality of exports . Greater input of human capital , superior technology , higher-value materials and more reliable production processes improve the qualitative properties of a product and accordingly justify a higher price compared with the original use of materials based on weight . The higher quality of a product is therefore reflected in a higher unit value . Not only does Switzerland show the highest mean unit values across all exported goods but the relationship between the value of imported goods and that of exports is at a record level . That Switzerland is so far ahead of all the countries in the comparison is due not least to the fact that compared with other countries the unit value of exports is much less significantly reduced by sectors with characteristically lower values . The automotive industry , for example , is considerably more important in Germany . Although it is among the most technology-intensive sectors of the economy , it falls well short of the figures for the high-tech industries of precision instruments , pharmaceuticals , and watches . A high share for food production ( France , US , UK ) also has an unfavorable impact on the overall position . Owing to the importance of its textile and clothing industry ( which typically exhibits a favorable value / weight ratio ) , Italy is well ahead . The relevance of unit value is improved by comparing the various countries at sector level . We excluded the examples of chemicals , pharmaceuticals , electrical engineering and machinery from the study . Based on the difference in unit values for exported versus imported goods , in combination with the information on imported and exported volumes ( volume-based balance of trade ) , we can determine whether each individual export goods sector is in a price or quality-sensitive market , and whether the sector has a corresponding advantage relative to its competitors . This analysis shows that most Swiss exports compete on quality . In 2010 , this share stood at 63 percent . It comes as no surprise that Swiss exports are generally at an advantage when competing on quality . Only six percent of the goods that compete on quality show a disadvantage relative to foreign rivals . When competing on price , on the other hand , just under 10 percent of Swiss goods are at an advantage : In 90 percent of cases , the advantage lies with the foreign competitor . This confirms the finding that Switzerland is significantly less competitive when it comes to pricing . There are clear indications that the quality of products of the Swiss export goods industry makes a material contribution to success . The export heavyweights of pharmaceuticals , machinery and electrical engineering appear well positioned . But if the Swiss export industry wishes to remain successful in the future , it will absolutely need to maintain its lead in terms of quality and technology . This means it will need to continue developing through constant innovation . Other economies - primarily in the emerging-market countries - will seek to replicate these qualities at lower cost . The " price premium " versus competitors therefore needs to be reinforced repeatedly through continuous improvements and outstanding service .
laughter . At age 30 , Abdul , an investment banker at Credit Suisse in London , is the very embodiment of the classic ideal of an Olympic athlete . An amateur who sacrifices himself both for his work and his sport , taking part in the Olympics would be the climax of a somewhat solitary sporting career . All the more so when the games are staged on the athlete 's veritable doorstep . Abdul Buhari : I am 30 years old , and I am a British discus thrower who has had an international career . My best throw was 65.44 meters , the fourth-best result in the history of English track and field athletics . I 've been in the " business " since 2003 . But discus throwing is not a job , it 's a passion . I love the magic that is at play when I make the discus fly . It 's a sort of Frisbee , but it weighs two kilograms - as heavy as a bag of potatoes . And I throw it halfway across a soccer pitch . It 's magnificent ! The diameter of the launch platform is only 2.5 meters and the throw takes less than five seconds . To achieve the best speed , you more or less have to run straight ahead on a circular area . Modern discus throwers are most definitely high-caliber performers - gone are the days when this sport was merely the preserve of athletes with fuller figures . The throw is divided into 25 movements . These are systematically analysed and varied in order to attain better lengths . That 's a strictly guarded secret ! Abdul was not always a successful discus thrower . At the outset , the pattern of his progress could best be described as one step forward and two steps back . As a teenager , he ran the 400 meters , but when he was injured ( not for the last time ) , he took up the discus while he was studying to graduate from high school . However , Abdul was too slight for his new discipline . Within a short time , he had to bulk up from 80 to over 100 kilograms , and today he weighs in at 126 kilos . Although he stands 1.98 meters tall , Abdul was plagued by another problem : " I was too bashful . " As soon as this giant stepped into the discus cage in front of a crowd of spectators , his self-confidence vanished . " At my first international competition , I stepped into the circle , took a look around - and dropped the discus on the ground . " Nevertheless , Abdul kept on making new attempts to face up to the situation he most feared : " I simply could n't give up throwing the discus , so I had to learn how to cope with the public . " Even today , his emotions sometimes get in the way , so he is perhaps the only Olympic athlete pleased about the restrictive ticketing policy of the London organizers . Abdul was n't allocated any admission tickets for his relatives , but he 's happy with that . " If my family is present in the stadium , I only think about them . Are they all right ? Are they having a good time ? My performance would suffer as a result . " After a long period when Abdul 's performance stagnated , he reached a turning point in 2008 - preceded by another setback . He missed qualifying for the Beijing Olympics by a mere 70 centimeters . In other words , the discus fell only 1 percent short of the mark . The reticent Englishman was shattered . Although he had only been working for Credit Suisse for one year , he summoned up all his courage and explained to his boss : " If I want to move ahead in my sport , I ca n't carry on working full time . " His superior was accommodating , even though the banking sector is not exactly world-famous for part-time work models . Abdul has worked 40 percent since then . And how did the clients react ? " Many of them have become my fans , and some of them even attend my competitions . " Abdul consulted the head of the trading floor at Credit Suisse , who taught him to build up his sporting career as if it were his own business . " A good trader does n't see himself as a cog in a huge machine , but as an independent small business for which he shoulders all the responsibility . " Abdul then deliberately took this advice as the watchword for his investments in his career as an athlete : He changed his coach and last year , the Muslim even gave up the fasting period . " Ramadan coincided with the world championship , and I needed fuel in my tank , " Abdul explains . He deploys his website and his Twitter account as marketing tools , and he knows his latest performance data inside out . " Free-weight bench press with barbells 60 kilos ; bench press 210 kilos ; classic barbell squat 240 kilos . " To achieve these figures , Abdul spends more on food and travel than on the mortgage for his house . He spends over 400 British pounds per month on meat alone . Every week he makes the three-hour journey to Loughborough , where the best possible training facilities are available to him . Abdul tells us that his wife , whom he married in 2010 , lends stability to his life . At 30 , Abdul has reached what is considered the best age for a discus thrower . The discus throw is definitely an event for older competitors . Al Oerter threw his personal best at 43 . Jürgen Schult was 40 when he made his last appearance at the Olympics and Lars Riedel ended his career at 41 . Jean-Pierre Egger , former holder of the Swiss discus record and long-standing trainer to Werner Günthör , Switzerland 's best shot-putter of all time , says that the advanced age of the throwers is explained by the demanding requirements of the discipline : " You need at least ten years to master the technique and to build up the necessary strength . " Abdul is set to reach the peak of his career in the near future . The investments in " Buhari Ltd " should pay dividends , after having his best year so far in 2011 . He increased his personal best distance to 65.44 meters , remained injury-free , and - the achievement that pleases him most of all - his throwing was consistent . These successes are all whetting his appetite for more . This perfect athlete intends to gain even more ground at the London Olympics . Is it all an illusion ? Abdul recently spent a weekend training with Jürgen Schult , holder of the oldest world record in men 's track and field ( 74.08 meters , thrown in 1986 ) . The legendary German discus thrower was very enthusiastic about Abdul 's technique , telling him , " there 's no reason why you should n't win a medal in London . "
company - now a subsidiary - focused on the military and civilian aeronautics markets , building on its expertise in circuit boards and the technologies it already mastered . Extensive PR work and a significant investment in time were necessary to pass the EN9100 quality audits for aerospace companies and to land the first contracts . With the success of this new strategy , CES gradually moved away from the core activities of its parent company , which agreed to sell the subsidiary in 2011 . The sale of CES 's capital was completed in 2012 to three Swiss financial investors : SVC - Ltd . for Risk Capital for SMEs , Vinci Capital Switzerland SA , and Capital Transmission SA . Today , CES SA offers two major product lines . First , its standard circuit boards are exceptionally high-performing components . The company handles the design , manufacture and assembly of processor , interface , network , and graphics boards . Second , these boards can also be assembled to create complete systems . CES offers different types of systems , including flight computers , which must pass the highest level of security and reliability for flight data controls , and mission computers , which are connected to sensors handling a specific role , such as collecting photos or video . These various technologies are installed on board of both civil and military aircrafts . As for the signal-processing subsystems produced by CES , they are primarily used to equip airports or borders with surveillance radar . In order to recruit the qualified employees essential to its development , the company maintains close relationships with universities and specialty schools of higher education throughout the region . Three-quarters of the close to one hundred employees have a higher technical engineering education background , including many with doctorates . In addition , the company takes five to six interns on board each year for extensive engineering and technical training . However , maintaining the research and development team in Switzerland has a considerable cost . Yet , the proximity of the schools , the Swiss quality image , the historic links with CERN , and Switzerland 's political neutrality and stability all speak in favor of the company 's headquarters in the Geneva region . With employees of close to 20 different nationalities , the company offers an extremely multicultural environment . CES-technology is what drives employees to expand the company 's market share in the face of US competitors that are often ten times the size of the company from Lancy . CES exports 100 percent of its products , and was recently negatively impacted by the difficult economic conditions that led to a decline in its clients ' activities . The company is in contact with Armasuisse , the authority mandated by the Swiss Federal Department of Defense , Civil Protection and Sports with the procurement and replacement of the F-5 Tiger . However , the political situation in Switzerland represents an additional element of uncertainty for such large projects , restricting this unique opportunity for Swiss industry . For all that , the global market is huge and CES has the potential for market share growth . Strong growth is expected in certain aeronautics sectors , like ISR ( Intelligence , Surveillance and Reconnaissance ) . Beyond these challenges , CES is still confident in its know-how and its 100 percent Swiss solutions , thus ensuring that its name will always be associated with reputable clients and projects .
then it is definitely sustainable . Matthias Lüfkens : Absolutely . Social media are here to stay . Right now , Facebook is approaching a billion followers . If it were a country , soon it would become the second-biggest country in the world , overtaking India . Even if it ultimately faces the same fate as MySpace , there will still be some other kind of social network to replace it . It 's going to be very , very difficult to isolate yourself from the new world of social networking . That 's why I , too , believe that social media are going to be around for a very long time . Matthias : First , companies have to change - really change - in terms of their attitude towards social media . They have to be part of it and play an active role . They must go in and create a community of friends , rather than just looking for potential clients . Basically , they have to become social in the true sense of the word . And they have to open up . That implies deciding who is allowed to speak for the company . Before , it was easy . Only the head of communications , the CEO and maybe the managing board were entitled to do that . Today , everybody is on the front line : From the person at the reception desk to middle management , everyone is becoming an unofficial spokesperson by being on Twitter or Facebook . Organizations need to train their staff , giving them insight into what it means to be social , and how best to deal with this new role of becoming a spokesperson . Matthias : Very important . It is not enough to say : " Oh , yes , we 're on Twitter . But , we 're not active . We 're just monitoring . " Companies must go beyond that . They should listen and respond . You ca n't just transform a press release into 140 characters . You have to engage your audience . For example , you can put your CEO and your managing board on Twitter . It gives them huge potential to speak directly to their audience - including employees and journalists - and gives the audience the chance to ask questions , to interact . Nick : By entering this world , if you are very high-profile , you potentially encourage people to speak more freely . But criticism is always out there . Tempting as it is for corporations or even individuals to pretend it does not exist , in fact , it does . The companies that embrace that criticism are actually the most successful . For example , in the travel industry . Take TripAdvisor . That 's something that initially would have led major hotel operators to say , " This is terrible . There are people out there criticizing our hotels . " But , the sum total of those voices is benefiting the whole industry . People have had to realize that you need to step up your game . No crisis is ever wasted as long as you listen to feedback and respond to it . Nick : When we first encouraged our journalists to step into social media , some would come back and say , " There is no way I am engaging in this . How dare people have the temerity to criticize what I write ? " We had to remind them that in daily work , we critique world leaders , CEOs and broadly , anyone making decisions . Today every single journalist at The Economist would say that the social media feedback they get has made their writing better . Corporations will find the same thing . Once they get over the initial shock that people are n't uniformly positive about everything , they 'll find opportunities to make their businesses better . Nick : Nike does this phenomenally well , for example . Or , take the pharmaceuticals industry . Because it is heavily-regulated and often target of criticism , it 's not an obvious candidate for social media . But companies like Johnson & Johnson have shown what can be done through YouTube , blogging and Twitter . Or , there 's the Zappos shoe business . Through social media they have succeeded in communicating that they are a customer service company , and built a billion-dollar business in less than 10 years . Most of the physical retail competitors in the US took 30 , 40 or 50 years to build a business of that size . Matthias : Yes . Oh , yes . Because , soon you will contact clients via Twitter . A great example is how the airline KLM contacted people using Twitter during volcanic eruptions that disrupted flights . They said : " Follow us , we 'll follow you back " and secured direct messaging and rebooked the clients . It will happen for banks . I 'm pretty sure I will soon be able to do online banking via Twitter . Matthias : The risk is in not doing it . Around the time I put the World Economic Forum on Facebook , there were lots of demonstrations against globalization in Zurich , Davos and Bern . I created the page and told myself , I ca n't possibly imagine anyone wanting to become friends with the WEF . But guess what ? There are now over 100,000 likes on that page . And in all these years there were maybe 10 or 20 negative comments . We 've opened up and invited discussion . And when it came , the discussion was very civil . You have to open up , especially , if you 're a public-facing institution . Matthias : Yes , because it 's open and Facebook is still kind of private . Twitter is my personal choice , it 's very powerful . You can do Twitter interviews : Every CEO has half an hour time per week just to answer a couple of questions . Before , you had to do that in a press conference . A great example is President Paul Kagame of Rwanda ( @PaulKagame ) who is one of the most conversational world leaders on Twitter . He personally chats with his Twitter followers . By contrast , François Hollande , France 's new president , just stopped tweeting on his personal account , abandoning over 400,000 followers after he was elected . That will kill him for the next elections , if he does n't reactivate that . Nick : We do . We have 1.1 million Facebook likes . We have 2.5 million Twitter followers . We make extensive use of YouTube , though we do n't produce that much video content . We use SlideShare . We have a massive Tumblr community , it 's been huge for us . LinkedIn we use , and Flickr . The one thing that we have not yet done is find a way to make the best-possible use of some regional social networks or some that are not what you might consider to be English-language networks . Matthias : YouTube was a great success . In 2006 , when I planned to put videos on YouTube , people said , " Nobody will watch them . They were never meant to be viral . " But we put them on and now , the World Economic Forum has two channels and in total 19,000 subscribers . YouTube is the second-biggest search engine on the Internet . If you 're not on YouTube , you do n't exist . Beyond that , we are on Facebook with over 100,000 likes , on Google+ with over a million , and Twitter with 1.6 million followers . When we started to have Twitter in Davos in 2008 , 23 people were tweeting out of 2,600 participants . This year , in fact 649 were active on the micro-blogging platform . Nick : Mobile will probably be a turbocharging mechanism . Mobile devices are in the hands of so many people on the planet , and it 's natural to use a mobile device socially . Mobile is inextricably social in its DNA .
cultural differences also present us with the opportunity to learn from each other . China has achieved great growth in the past 10 years but we are still considered a developing country . I hope my generation can bring the country to a higher level . It should be our mission and responsibility . This is different from my father 's generation : in his era , the focus was on finding a better life , feeding the family , getting support . Now things have changed and we need to change China 's image . China is already doing very well , even if the economy is slowing down . It realizes that it needs to adjust its speed of growth and maintain a balance between domestic reform inside and outside the country . It is , however , not easy for the Chinese government with a population of 1.3 billion - that 's a lot of people to feed and provide jobs for . But we are on the right track , we just have to be patient . Unlike other entrepreneurs who started and grew their own businesses , I am very lucky that my father created such a large empire . What works for me , especially at my age , is being confident and believing in myself . I do face a lot of challenges and sacrifice a lot to be in this position . For example , I do n't have much time to go to parties or do things with my friends , but I do gain a lot going from one meeting to another and speaking with different people . That 's another way of learning and demonstrates that sometimes sacrifice is a gift in disguise . Defining myself . That 's something I need to do more : I sometimes get lost in which direction I want to go and find it hard to decide what is the right thing for me to do at my age . The challenge is really more of an internal process , rather than from the enterprise , having to make decisions , or the challenges that other people put to me . People do try to influence you , for example the media , but you need to focus on yourself rather than other people . I believe that once you have the ability to help others you should do so . Even though it 's a small amount for me , it is a lot for the students I support . I want to give a gift whereby I see benefits . I am not comfortable with simply writing a check to a foundation and forgetting about it , that 's not the way I do things . I meet up with a group of 30-40 students once every semester . We talk about their careers , their goals , role models and their daily difficulties . Right now , my foundation does this with Zhejiang University . My vision is to have the foundation support more people and expand it to cover around 100 students . The Foundation has already helped a lot of people and I want to help change the way people think about charity in China : I want to influence other people to get involved personally rather than just writing a check . I was educated in the US and I notice a big difference between the systems there and in China . Chinese education is more focused on how to pass exams , which is not enough . In the US , education is more about helping students find their own ideas - this is more important . In the future , human resources will be a big problem for China if we do n't have an effective education system that produces enough talented people or allow good people to stand out . I want to do something about that and make a change . I wanted to be an artist when I was young . I wanted to be inspired by nature and I like colorful things . But it was only a dream . I still paint sometimes but not as often nowadays . I do n't think focusing on business is what I want to do forever . While it is the right timing for me to do this now , I do want to pick up my art in around 10 years , once the company is going strong and they do n't need me so much . I look forward to having more time to focus on my own life . If that happens , I want to travel and see different cities , meet new people , do things I enjoy , like painting , and perhaps learn a third language , such as French . Be brave : you need to be in order to face everything in front of you . If you do n't take a step out , you will never know the outcome . Failure is not an issue , we always can learn something from it so that we can do better next time . And be wise so that you can make the right choices . Also , sometimes you have to be careful of being too straightforward : you can easily hurt people without knowing it . That is a big challenge for me , in both my work environment and with my family . It is something I personally need to work on - I need to be take a softer approach and be more " womanly " . It 's quite tough as an only child as you have a lot of pressure from both inside and outside the family .
give a project order to a small group of architects . In view of the fact that the historically valuable CS head office is a listed building , along with other buildings on Paradeplatz , the owners were very much aware of their cultural responsibility . The future Paradeplatz would have to fulfill the following requirements : " Visitors should not only have seen the building from the outside , but should also have experienced it on the inside . The space 's design should be stimulating and communicative , generous and open , " according to the assessment report . In mid-1997 , the Executive Board gave the green light for a fundamental renovation . The project order was finally granted to the architect 's office , Atelier 5 , which developed a plan corresponding to the bank 's wishes of creating welcoming place for the public . These architects excelled in achieving a subtle interaction with the pre-existing structure and found the perfect equilibrium between preservation and renovation . At the same time , they placed the return to the building 's original state before their own desire to create something new . Denis Roy , the architect responsible for the project , comments : " The planning was influenced more by the building itself and its history than by us architects . " Today , visitors no longer enter the Credit Suisse banking hall when they step inside the building , instead they find themselves still in a public area - in an arcade which leads through to Lichthof . Denis Roy comments : " When Adolf Brunner built the Lichthof in 1876 there was also a passage here . This was closed during the major renovation in 1900 and it was converted into a banking hall . Now - 100 years later - we have reopened this arcade . This is probably the most distinguishing characteristic of the entire project . " This monumental edifice was also opened up towards Bahnhofstrasse . The connecting arcade , which is concealed along the front of the façade by a portico , was once the main hall of the post office . This approach also leads to the heart of the building : " The passage from Bahnhofstrasse to Lichthof is the most significant architectural intervention in our project , " says Denis Roy . The visitor passes underneath several archways before arriving in the Lichthof , which is flooded with light from the skylights overhead . The entrances from the three thoroughfares - Paradeplatz , Bahnhofstrasse and Bärengasse - all lead to a central point . The contrast between noisy Paradeplatz and the temple-like Lichthof is noticeable . This central space is an oasis of peacefulness . The actual entrance to the Credit Suisse bank branch is in the hall where the securities counter once was . " The hall , which is a listed structure , is in the form of a nonagon and was an extension of the banking hall at the turn of the century . We have envisaged the old securities counter as the entrance to Credit Suisse . This new entrance is in exactly the same spot as it was when the architects , the Pfister brothers , constructed the building in 1876 on the corner of Talackerstrasse and Paradeplatz , " says Denis Roy . Ten shops and a gourmet restaurant have opened their doors in the high-class Credit Suisse shopping arcade . In here a myriad of shops find themselves side by side ? Fabric Frontline , the silk emporium ; Christophe Graber , the avant-garde goldsmith ; Swiss Air Lines ; Strozzi , the delicatessen temple ; and La Serlas Zurich , the specialist in exclusive and unique jewelry and antiques . The host of international names are no less impressive . Interest peaks when one sees the Italian fashion titans , Giorgio Armani and Ermenegildo Zegna , and not to mention the optician 's Cartier / Nicole Diem , leather goods from Bottega Veneta , jewelry from Bulgari and the first flagship store from Montblanc .
international arena , leading the way to new financing opportunities for challenged institutions in the current market environment . Islamic finance encompasses the reconciliation of financial activities and Islamic law . The Sharia is based on various spiritual and legal sources , most importantly the Quran and the Sunnah . The Quran is a fully codified text that , to Muslims , represents the word of God . The Sunnah refers to the way of life of the Islamic prophet Muhammad , which is partly reported and should be followed by all Muslims . Since Muhammad himself was a tradesman at a certain stage of his life , the Quran and the Sunnah contain detailed advice and rules on how Muslims should act economically . At the center of these advises is the prohibition of Riba , which means interest or usury in Arabic . Consequentially , the absence of interest is a crucial requirement to any kind of Islamic financial transaction . The prohibition of interest is not an exclusive feature of Islam . Most monotheistic religions have regarded interest with distrust at one time or another . In ancient Judaism and Christianity , taking interest was considered a sin . To both religious communities , it took centuries to advance their religious conventions in order to make interest-based financial activities socially acceptable . In Jewish tradition , this process has been mainly facilitated by the permission of interest-based lending to non-Jews and the Christians ' claim that Jewish people should be charged with the handling of financial affairs . For Christians , restrictions on dealing with interest were maintained until the end of the Middle Ages . Here , it was basically an intellectualized discourse on the time value of money that has led to a changing perception of interest within the Christian community . The critical attitude towards interest , however , is still reflected in national laws today . In the USA , for example , so-called usury statutes define the maximal interest rate that can be claimed on loans . The prohibition of interest is not the only thing that differentiates conventional from Islamic finance . The regulations also dictate the handling of risk and speculation , gambling-like situations and a classification of " good " and " bad " business sectors . The rules on risk and speculation underline the need of sustainable growth for local economies . The prohibition of gambling-like situations stems from the fact that in pre-Islamic Mecca , gambling for soft commodities was very popular . While some players benefited from the values gained , others ended up highly indebted . It is said that the prophet Muhammad aimed at increasing social cohesion among Islamic believers and therefore fought the gambling-like practices that enlarged the gap between the rich and the poor . Moreover , Islamic finance became famous for its application of a so-called negative screening approach . Since the emergence of the sector , religious scholars have started to define business sectors that are in the spirit of Islam and the ones that are classified as non-Islamic . Today , the Dow Jones Islamic Market Index , the best known benchmark index for Islamic equities , identifies the following business sectors as not compliant with Islam : the production of alcohol- , tobacco- and pork-related products , conventional financial services , the entertainment sector , as well as the weapons and defense industry . In addition to that , highly indebted companies are excluded , because Islamic scholars argue that equity must be preferred over debt . The idea of considering Sharia principles for the structuring of financial transactions emerged among Egyptian intellectuals in the middle of the twentieth century . At this stage in history , the Middle East was not a wealthy region and thus , the first Islamic finance experiments did not gain attention on a supra-regional level . In the 1970s , however , when the oil crisis led to tremendous amounts of new wealth in the Middle East , the idea of Sharia-compliant finance was taken up again . Since then , a number of institutions in the Middle East and South East Asia have steadily worked on developing an Islamic form of economic action . These institutions were mainly located in the Gulf countries and enjoyed strong support by the Islamic Development Bank that was founded in 1973 . In the 1980s , Islamic financial services became increasingly popular in South East Asia . In contrast to the Middle Eastern markets , where Islamic financial institutions mainly focused on wealthy private banking clients and private equity activities , South East Asian Islamic financial institutions started to establish a stronger focus on retail clients . Still , until the end of the twentieth century , Islamic finance offered fairly limited opportunities to its practitioners . Since direct interest was forbidden , a complete banking service that goes beyond equity investing could not be offered to Islamic clients . This , however , changed in the new millennium , when Islamic institutions started to put more effort into research and development . Afterwards , the Islamic fixed income market grew , Islamic mortgages became more popular , Sharia-compliant credit cards were offered . At the end of the last decade , Islamic market participants could finally benefit from a fully-fledged Islamic financial service sector . In the first decade of the new millennium , Sukuk became very popular among companies based in the Middle East and South East Asia to raise capital in financial markets . The expression Sukuk - often translated as Islamic bond - is the plural of the Arabic word Sakk , that stands for deed or legal document . Etymologically , the word has the same roots as the English word check and refers to the old tradition of issuing legal documents to verify outstanding debt . The word Sukuk , a number of checks , has therefore been used to describe the first attempts to create Islamic fixed income products . While from 2002 to 2005 there where annually less than fifty new Sukuk issued globally , the amount of new issues increased to 398 in 2010 . This massive increase took place for various reasons : First , it has been driven by the growing transparency of the way Sukuk are structured . To avoid interest payments that are normally applied for conventional fixed income products , Sukuk generally rely on highly complex legal and cash flow structures . After the Islamic financial market had to deal with a number of defaults , frameworks of Sukuk have been stress-tested and improved . Further , the demand for Sukuk has been stimulated by the growing number of Islamic equity investors that enhanced their religion-based approach to fixed income products . Finally , another important development has recently boosted the Sukuk market : To raise capital in the Islamic world , various non-Islamic companies have started to issue Sukuk that enable Islamic investors to purchase fixed income products of non-Islamic companies . The first non-Islamic Sukuk issuer was the German state Saxony-Anhalt . With the pioneering idea to raise capital in the Islamic financial market , Saxony-Anhalt significantly enlarged its potential investors ' base in 2004 . Since then , companies like General Electric , Hewlett Packard or Petronas issued Sukuk to raise Islamic capital . The launch of the recent Goldman Sachs Sukuk signals that even established financial institutions are currently considering this step . This does not come as a surprise . Due to the current belt-tightening in the USA and in Europe , to some companies , raising capital in the Middle East and South East Asia might be to only way to stay liquid in future . Since the late 1980s , the term globalization has been used to describe the increasing international production and circulation of goods , services and ideas . While many of the goods and services today are provided by emerging markets , the ideas are generally still produced by western political and financial institutions . Here , Islamic finance is a powerful counterexample . The idea of a Sharia-compliant way of banking and finance originated in the Middle East and has been mainly developed and promoted by Middle Eastern and South East Asian actors and institutions . The fact that non-Islamic companies have taken up the idea of Islamic finance and are now looking for Islamic financial products to raise capital , does not follow the traditional pattern of globalization . It is , by contrast , a sign of the emergence of a multipolar world , which will no longer be governed by established markets exclusively . Without any doubt , this development towards a multipolar world is currently accelerated by the ongoing financial crisis and the need of western-based companies to raise new capital from new sources .
tournaments . Some have even won championships at a professional level : Xherdan Shaqiri , Granit Xhaka , Yann Sommer , Fabian Frei and Valentin Stocker with FC Basel , Philippe Koch , Admir Mehmedi , Oliver Buff and Ricardo Rodríguez with FC Zurich . This generation is extremely hungry for success . And not daunted by the prospect of a major challenge . I would n't put it that way . Basically , a player " discovers " and " makes " himself . The coach supervises him on that path . People like me also are on hand to help them if problems arise . Pace and the necessary technical skill set , and then personality - I ask myself if I can imagine this player among those preparing for a professional match . It has nothing to do with physical aspects . It 's attitude . Players should possess the total conviction - I would even go as far as to say arrogance - that they can mix it with the very best . A player also needs the support of a stable family . Without a positive personal environment , their talent can just go to waste . Of course not . Anyone claiming otherwise is talking nonsense . There 's always a degree of uncertainty as to whether a player has it in him . And a number of players have surprised me on the positive side , for example , Gökhan Inler . He has developed superbly , but when he was 17 , I would not have backed him without reservations . Wasted is perhaps overstating things . But if there 's one footballer in particular who springs to mind , it would be Jonas Elmer of FC Sion . Where would he be today if he had been allowed to continue playing as a striker , just as he did as a C-Junior with FC Stäfa ? He possessed exceptional finishing qualities , but for no obvious reason was " re-tooled " as a defender . With experience , you can reach conclusions a bit more quickly . But in general , you need a huge amount of information before you can ascertain whether someone has what it takes . The famous " wow " effect Yann Sommer produced is something that I have seen only rarely . I came across him during my first few days as head of Basel 's youth section . When I attended training of the U16s and was looking to make myself useful , the coach asked me to give the goalkeeper some practice . You can generally expect a 15-year-old to wait quietly for instructions from the new boss . But not Yann . He told me precisely what he wanted me to do : the exact number of crosses , how many high shots , how many hard flat shots . Sommer had an astonishingly precise idea of what he needed to become successful later in his career . Well … Shaqiri was 13 at the time , and displayed some very interesting qualities . As did Xhaka , by the way . What was striking about the pair was that they remained injury-free , despite the great intensity of their games , and that they both exuded leadership qualities on the field . Xhaka had another talent off the field though : As the squad treasurer , he never had any problems collecting contributions from his fellow players . Even so , with all that , both players still needed to develop some skills . I suppose it is the day when I see that a junior is finding it too easy , even when he is moved up to the next age level . With Xhaka and Shaqiri , it was when they were 16 . They joined the U18s to play a top-league team - and then simply toyed with their adult opponents . He has exceptional variety as a player , can play on both sides of the pitch , then moves beautifully between the two sidelines , which gives him the opportunity to exploit gaps in opponents ' zonal play . Due to his technique , he 's rarely under pressure . He receives the ball perfectly , which gives him more time for the next pass . In addition , it was evident at an early stage that he would bring a wonderful marketing edge : His dynamic style brings spectators to their feet . Back in his Winterthur days , everyone knew Admir was good . But when he played at D-Junior level he had to battle weight problems , which is something that Murat Yakin also had to contend with many years ago , by the way . But today he has a very impressive physique . At the U21 European Championship , not only was he one of the best players , he was also one of the fittest . And I recall on one occasion when he was n't used , he put in a special practice after the game . It 's vital that we produce the footballers the market wants . Just to give an example , to combat the acute shortage of strikers we have recruited a number of attacking coaches in the last few years , and have made special efforts to develop offensive movement skills . But now it appears we lack central defenders . What the market wants are big , strong aggressive players weighing 85 kilograms or more . For us , success is when the players make the leap from youth ranks to the senior national side . Two players per year is a bare minimum . Five would be outstanding . But anything in between should be considered good to very good . Commitment Unlike the European or World Championships , professional clubs are not obliged to release their players for the Olympic Games . So in this sense you are approaching clubs as a petitioner - you have to demonstrate an understanding for the clubs ' interests , which at the same time are themselves contesting important games . However , one can stress the importance of the Olympic Games for the players ' careers , and for the Swiss Football Association , particularly as we did n't qualify for this year 's European Championship at the senior level . I had the impression that the clubs appreciated our personal approach . I 'm optimistic . We are taking a strong squad to London . That 's a serious misconception . I 'm expecting the Olympics to be very evenly matched . And the many unknown teams , the " exotics , " make things more difficult , as it 's hard to know what to expect . We approach the Olympics like we do the European Championships . The first objective is to get through the group stage . With Mexico , South Korea and Gabon in our group , that 's hardly a slam dunk . Then we 'll see . The key thing is that everyone identifies with the team on an emotional level . Everyone must realize that this opportunity will never come around again . It 's now or never . Peter Knäbel ( 45 ) is Technical Director of the Swiss Football Association since 2009 . He is responsible for the five units of grassroots football , top-level football , trainer development , women 's football , and representative teams . He won a U16 European championship with Germany and played in the Bundesliga for Bochum , St. Pauli , 1860 Munich and Nuremberg . Following that , the native of Westphalia , Germany , first transferred to FC St.Gallen with his wife , who is Swiss , then to FC Winterthur . After his playing career ended , he became head of the youth training program at FC Winterthur , before going on to achieve success in the same position at FC Basel . He has two children and lives in Riehen .
over a 10 kilometer stretch . The technology of Omnisens , based in Morges , Switzerland , enables energy suppliers to record and analyze any accidental or intentional malfunctions . Together with various partners , the company monitors civil engineering structures such as bridges , railways , roads , and dams . The list of potential applications is long , as the proper functioning of numerous structures is vital for the economy , the environment , and society . Marc Niklès is from a Neuchâtel family closely associated with the watch industry , which certainly facilitated his approach to micro technology . In 1997 , he submitted his thesis on fiber optics to the EPFL ( Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale in Lausanne ) . At that stage , he was already considering how fiber optics could be used as sensors . A first prototype was developed that was able to identify points of overheating , which is a sure indication of various anomalies . The invention was initially used for electricity cables and gas pipelines , and these remain the core business of Omnisens although applications in related fields are being developed . On December 31 , 1999 , as others waited for the millennium bug announced for midnight , Marc Niklès and three other founders launched Omnisens . Initially based in the center of the EPFL science park , the company brought its first product to the market in 2002 . Over the years , it has built solid foundations with qualified employees , comprehensive expertise , and highly specialized know-how . Today , Omnisens SA has around two dozen employees , including four specialists with doctorates in fiber optics . Despite the move to Morges , the link with EPFL is still strong , mainly thanks to a series of projects funded by the CTI ( Commission for Technology and Innovation ) . In 2006 the company changed its strategy . The focus is no longer on producing measuring instruments , but on the overall monitoring of critical structures in the energy sector . Many clients are looking for turnkey solutions . Fiber optic sensors require installation and maintenance , the data recorded needs analyzing , and employees need training . Omnisens provides all of these services . The entry of a venture capitalist in 2008 contributed to the implementation of this reorientation . The new strategy is also reflected in the new company motto " Securing Asset Integrity , " which replaces " Defining Performance . " The company is now also awarded larger contracts . Omnisens has clients located around the world , who are aware of the serious consequences of a defect in a power cable , pipeline , or offshore structure . In Latin America , for example , pipelines have to cross the Andes , where landslides are a real threat . In Siberia and the far east of Russia , the subsoil is increasingly unstable due to thawing of the permafrost . In the North Sea , the challenge is to maintain pipelines at a constant temperature to prevent petroleum from freezing . In Alaska , Omnisens technology has most likely already contributed to preventing damage to a pipeline . This was laid in a trench dug out of the ice , and as the temperature of the environment rose , the pipeline was exposed to meltwater . The system sounded the alarm , and the petroleum was prevented from thickening too much . With the aid of the system , the exact location of the problem could be identified . The world 's largest wind farm is located off the coast of Great Britain . The submarine power cables transferring the electricity to shore are monitored by Omnisens systems , as is a 32 kilometer long subsea interconnector linking Guangdong to Hainan Island , a popular resort destination in China . The large infrastructure projects Omnisens participates in have long development phases . The company has dedicated , specialized employees who are following the projects and developing new applications for the technology to meet the requirements for safe and efficient monitoring of the projects under construction . In the future , Omnisens also aims to operate in the area of monitoring for the latest generation of long submarine power cables and infrastructure used for the extraction of deep-sea oil and gas . Omnisens SA is in permanent competition for market share with large international groups . However , the specialists from the canton of Vaud are not put off by this and concentrate on their most important competitive advantage : Today , they are the only provider able to record data over a distance of over 100 kilometers from a single interrogator . The company is highly valued by its clients , not only for its technology , but also for the way it supports clients to find a monitoring solution for their plant , which requires more than just clever technology . The manageable size of the company means it can react with great flexibility , adapting its services to best match its clients ' requirements . The black box , which collects data , is installed at the company 's headquarters , guaranteeing Swiss quality work . The tragic events in Japan have provided a painful reminder of the dangers to the whole economy , the environment , and society . Everyone wants operators to manage these risks better . Moreover , this is still new technology and plans for monitoring installations are often limited . Although there is a long way to go in improving safety , Omnisens has a promising future thanks to its integrated approach .
there was still some work to be done , as far as Renoir is concerned . Nina Zimmer Definitely ! It would have to be " The Gypsy Girl , " or " Summer , 1868 " as it is also known . In this painting , we see a young woman - Renoir 's longtime model and muse , Lise Tréhot - who , we now know , was pregnant at the time . Her expression is weary and melancholy . The roughly painted background is in stark contrast to the hands , with their realistic red veins . Unusually , too , the hair is loose and the blouse has slipped lasciviously off her shoulder . Ignoring the artistic conventions of the day , Renoir has captured an ordinary , intimate moment . It would have been obvious to any contemporary observer that the girl in the painting was a lover , a provincial mistress , as many Parisians would have had at that time . The portrait challenges you to recognize yourself as a contemporary observer . Even so , the work opened the door for Renoir to the official Salon des Beaux Arts , which was a resounding success . Many of the Impressionists were born into bourgeois families , but rebelled against the prevailing morality , defiantly espousing alternative lifestyles and creative self-fulfillment . Renoir , on the other hand , came from a lower middle-class background as a porcelain painter . He was not a strident revolutionary . Still Life with Bouquet Renoir started mixing in different circles as he suddenly became close friends with these rebellious bohemian types . His early years as an artist were hard , and he benefited from his friends , who enjoyed financial support from their parents . From time to time , they all lived with Frédéric Bazille , who used the money from his parents to feed his penniless friends . Later on , as Renoir became more successful , he was commissioned to paint the portraits of the great and the good in Paris and invited to the " salons " of rich art collectors . His talent as an artist gave him access to the bourgeoisie and the aristocracy . For him , this was a major acknowledgement , and he relished it . But he never completely gave up his simple origins and lifestyle , preferring to stylize them instead . The Gypsy Girl ( Summer ) Artistically , Renoir joined his friends ' rebellion with gusto . His Impressionistic style , with his loose brushwork and pale palette , together with the everyday subjects that he painted , left his contemporaries reeling . But the form of his work was very traditional , on the whole : portraits , still life paintings , and landscapes . He also often referred to works from the Louvre , and alluded to academic artists such as Delacroix , Ingres , da Vinci , and Titian . Paul Meunier ( The Child in Velvet ) The exhibition offers a feast of outstanding paintings by Renoir for the general public to enjoy , with fantastic highlights from some of the major museum collections in Europe and the US . It 's truly spectacular , to be able to see so many masterpieces together . And then there is something special for aficionados , too . We will be showing the original 1867 painting " Lise Holding a Bunch of Wild Flowers , " which is part of a private collection and has n't been seen by the public since the 1920s . Woman with a Parasol in a Garden There was a moment , a year ago , when I was seriously worried about the whole concept of the exhibition . I got turned down for a few of the paintings , because Renoir is a popular artist , and important for lots of collections . That was a terrifying moment . But we turned the corner , and got the go-ahead for many really important works . Unfortunately , the reality is that whenever you 're preparing for an exhibition , there are lots of incredible pictures you have to do without , and you just have to be flexible in your detailed planning . That , in turn , gives you the scope to go in a new direction . The close and trusting working relationship with Marc Le Cœur . He opened up his family archive for us and contributed so much knowledge . That was tremendously valuable , because Renoir 's early work is very poorly documented . There are hardly any letters , so reliable sources are rare . We managed to get " Woman with Parrot , 1871 " from the Guggenheim Museum , which I 'm very proud of . Another favorite of mine is " Paul Meunier ( The Child in Velvet ) , " a portrait of Murer 's son , painted in 1877 . The innocent , gentle facial expression is very moving . I also really like the technique used to depict the texture of the fabric , and the way the little boy is all dressed up . Yes , it 's the philosophy of the museum and the director to identify a specific aspect of a well-known artist in order to provide new insights . Take any artist you may think you know , and you will see them in a whole new light . That 's definitely something I want to continue doing in the same way . The Kunstmuseum Basel is one of Switzerland 's oldest and most renowned art institutions . It therefore comes as no surprise that , after a five-year hiatus , Credit Suisse resumed its partnership with this illustrious museum in 2012 , agreeing support one special exhibition every year . The Kunstmuseum Basel collection focuses on paintings and drawings by artists from the Upper Rhine between 1400 and 1600 , as well as art from the 19th to the 21st century . The museum lays claim to the world 's largest collection of works by the Holbein family . Among the periods represented is the German Renaissance , with major works by Witz , Cranach , and Grünewald . Highlights from the 19th century include paintings by Böcklin , van Gogh , Gauguin and Cézanne . In the 20th century , the emphasis is on Cubism , German Expressionism , and American art since 1950 . Contemporary art is displayed at the Museum für Gegenwartskunst . Welcome to Viva Open a Viva Banking Package now and get a Ticketcorner Voucher worth CHF 50 .
. In the following report , these scenarios are re-assessed , based in particular on the policy changes that have occurred since then . The development of the EMU crisis at the end of 2011 was similar - but not identical - to what the above core scenarios had foreseen . Triggered by the worsening fiscal outlook in Greece and increasing evidence that the government was unable to push through the EU / IMF consolidation and reform program , fears of a larger default intensified . Fiscal slippage and political uncertainty in Italy - but in particular also the announcement that the private sector would have to face a bigger loss with Greek debt restructuring - subsequently triggered serious " contagion . " This , in turn , led to a massive sell-off in Italian sovereign bonds and even greater pressure on bank stocks and bonds , in Italy and beyond . In effect , southern Europe was experiencing a massive " bank-run , " in which investors withdrew money from local banks and forced these into selling assets , including government bonds . At the macroeconomic level , the south was experiencing a balance of payments crisis , in which both government and the financial sector were at risk of losing access to external financing . As households transferred capital abroad , the situation was exacerbated . Various efforts by political leaders to halt the spiral failed . While some commitments were made by the " strong " countries to boost support funds for crisis-affected countries , these commitments were far too small relative to the funding needs . If no other source of financing had been provided , the break-up risk of EMU would have quickly increased . The key to short-circuiting that risk and stabilizing both debt and equity markets clearly was the decisive intervention by the European Central Bank ( ECB ) in December , in which banks were offered huge loans , at attractive rates and for an extended period . This financing effectively halted the run on the banks as well as the pressure to sell sovereign bonds and halted the draining of funds from the southern European countries . The core scenario for 2012 is one of continued crisis containment . Given that fiscal deficits of many countries remain high and large current-account deficits will still need to be funded , the key to stability remains the availability of a lender of last resort , which prevents a negative spiral of capital flight developing as occurred in 2011 . It is clear that even if the European Stability Mechanism were launched on time in July 2012 - which has somewhat greater resources at its disposal than the EFSF and is less cumbersome due to a different financing structure - this backstop would be insufficient to reassure investors . The same goes for funds of the G- 20 and/or International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) that may become available . The continued commitment of the ECB to act as a lender of last resort to banks and thus indirectly to governments is key to preserving the stability gains of the past weeks . In the longer term , the move to sustainable fiscal deficits and debt levels is , of course , crucial . But getting there will take time , not least because the Eurozone likely faces a rather prolonged period of slow economic growth . The establishment of the ECB " firewall " described above paradoxically increases the risk of a Greek exit from the EMU . The reason is that the ECB 's ( implicit ) commitment to protect the banking sectors - and also the sovereigns - of major borrowers such as Italy and Spain reduces the fear of contagion should a smaller country exit . The exit of a country from EMU would trigger defaults well beyond those of just the exiting government , because the private sector in a country that had introduced a weaker currency would also no longer be able to service the remaining ( hard ) EUR obligations . To offset the financial stress caused by such a step would therefore also require decisive support from the ECB for the countries remaining within monetary union . Conversely , reduced fears of an exit by an EMU member would reduce the willingness of other governments to fund " profligate " members . Since the ECB 's action , it has already become clear that the external pressure on Greece to decisively tighten fiscal policy has increased . The pressure on local politicians has thus increased too . The risk that they choose the option of exiting EMU - which essentially means resorting to a local " printing press " - thus has intensified as well . This option is less likely than adherence to EMU , but the probability of an EMU exit by Greece has certainly grown .
to reach 9 billion by 2050 , the prevailing financial crises , growing inequalities , rising carbon emissions and degraded natural ecosystems , the global consensus is that humanity 's footprint is on the edge of its ecological boundaries . As the planet has undergone such dramatic transition over the last two decades , the need for significant changes in the approach to sustainable economic development has never been as pressing . There is no doubt that internationally binding rules would help pave the path to a green economy , yet the overall expectations are that treaties leading to international law are off the table at Rio . In the absence of a global governance framework , the need for a collective interplay between governments , business , scientists , politicians and the world 's population could hardly be more pertinent . Clear perspectives on government policies and long-term incentives are necessary for corporations to play their role in becoming a part of the solution and taking leadership in advancing a green economy . At the urging of politicians , regulators and shareholders and in the light of the global financial crises and recent natural catastrophes , there is an upward trend in corporations adopting and scaling up their sustainable business practices . For more than ten years , Credit Suisse 's focus on environmental and social considerations has been a critical aspect of our business . Our ISO 14001-certified environmental management system helps us to make more efficient use of resources throughout the company and to reduce the environmental impacts of our activities , resulting in a reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions . Our Green Business Initiative brings together experts from across the bank to promote renewable energy and cleantech products and services , while our internal risk review process routinely accesses transactions with clients that could pose environmental or social risks in accordance with our own policies and guidelines for sensitive industries . Sustainable investing , and a solid understanding of sustainability-related investment risk should be part of every investment decision and investment process . On the eve of Rio+ 20 , Credit Suisse further attested its commitment to following the path to the green economy with the launch of the ' Sustainability Outlook on Rio+ 20 - Expected Impacts on the Economic System ' report . Exploring the seven key cross-cutting themes identified for Rio+ 20 - among them featuring sustainable water , food security , agriculture and oceans - the report provides readers with advice on politically-induced growth potential in these areas , as well as giving an insight into the potential long-term implications of the summit on broader market developments . It explores likely scenarios for the funding of sustainable development policies and newer unconventional models of funding , such as impact investing , highlighting the fact that any mobilization of funding must be aligned with global economic recovery . One approach could involve the lifting of subsidies and tariffs that hinder investments and market potential . The report also refers to the Rio+ 20 agenda item on increased disclosure through participation of private companies in voluntary sustainability reporting schemes , which has the potential to translate into a policy option . Credit Suisse is further acknowledging its commitment to sustainable development at Rio+ 20 on the subject of threatened biodiversity . Credit Suisse will be an endorser of the " Private Sector Communiqué on Natural Capital " , the private sector initiative conveying a shared commitment to improving how the corporate sector values natural capital in its planning and decisions . John Tobin , Head Sustainability Affairs Credit Suisse , says : " Negative impacts on the Earth 's natural assets such as soil , forests , air , and water - and the services provided by them - not only have environmental and social implications . They are also likely to impact the global economy and in time will be felt by our shareholders , clients , employees , and other stakeholders , because we need a healthy planet if we are going to sustain a healthy economy in the long term . " Also set for launch this Wednesday by the World Bank Group , the global " 50:50 " initiative will bring together at least 50 public and 50 private sector institutions in formulating their joint support for factoring natural capital into decision making . While it remains to be seen what other tangible measures will surface out of Rio over the next few days , and factoring in the inevitable yet familiar dynamics of patchy progress and setbacks akin to international conventions of its kind , the question is no longer whether or not the world is heading towards a green economy , but rather , how to get there . Just as the Earth Summit 1992 was hailed as the event that set the blueprint for sustainable development for the 21st Century , there is still hope that Rio+ 20 could indeed turn out to be the event that transformed the mission of such gatherings from international global declarations and high-level treaties to bottom-up , ambitious , catalyzing and meaningful action by local governments and businesses on the ground .
Facebook and Twitter . With that they can get a couple of seconds advantage over their competitors in divining the emotional moodswings that occasionally affect the market . There are numerous examples of social media being used in the industry and the possibilities are endless . Banks in sectors other than retail banking may utilize social media to build brand awareness and differentiate themselves from the competition . Alternative developments include the recent burgeoning concepts of crowdfunding and social lending . These ongoing developments necessitate the formulation of specific social media strategies that cater to banks in various sectors - there is no one size fits all approach . The focus should be on marketing or building a reliable brand-name that consumers can learn to trust and associate as a hallmark of quality . Yuan Jun Lim : Engaged customers will probably derive a greater sense of satisfaction from the services provided by the financial firms . However , the ability of social media to " boost a company 's bottom line " is a contentious issue which I believe is one of the existing bugbears crippling the adoption of social media in the industry . Notwithstanding headaches-inducing regulatory constraints , there is no direct , viable method to accurately or conclusively measure the ROI that an investment in social media can or will bring . It is thus a challenge to formulate a set of metrics that can accurately quantify the ' value ' of social media . Yuan Jun Lim : Engaged customers will probably derive a greater sense of satisfaction from the services provided by the financial firms . However , the ability of social media to " boost a company 's bottom line " is a contentious issue which I believe is one of the existing bugbears crippling the adoption of social media in the industry . Notwithstanding headaches-inducing regulatory constraints , there is no direct , viable method to accurately or conclusively measure the ROI that an investment in social media can or will bring . It is thus a challenge to formulate a set of metrics that can accurately quantify the ' value ' of social media . Maggie O'Toole : With traditional media , you may reach your prospects , but you reach everyone else , too - and you pay for that . If you 're selling high-end financial services , your target market may only be 3 percent of the population , but you ca n't put up a billboard that will be seen by only that 3 percent . Social media allows you to target your communications . Even better , it allows your prospective customers to self-identify by opting in to your communications . You know they 're interested because , by clicking " Like " or " Follow , " they 've as good as told you that they are . Maggie O'Toole : It 's true ; firms do face regulations that may hamper their social media marketing efforts . But those challenges may be more self-imposed than legal . We 're still in the Wild West days of social media and traditionally conservative financial firms are n't comfortable with that . They want rules and content review processes . What they need to realize is this : digital media actually makes meeting some regulatory requirements easier . For example , all digital communications are automatically recorded , meaning that there 's no trouble complying with requirements to keep records of all communications . Hugh Jorgensen : The industrialized world has conveniently trained consumers into always wanting higher quality service at a faster and cheaper rate - preferably in a way that involves dragging their fingers around the screen of a handheld object . I suppose this means that people literally want to feel that they can control the world around them through their fingers - of course , if I had any idea how to monetize this emotion as a financial service then I would n't likely give it away for free . Hugh Jorgensen : For the overwhelming majority of people , the only connection between financial services and social media is likely to be in the way of more targeted advertising . We are unlikely to see the average punter updating their Facebook or Twitter statuses anytime soon with the size of their savings accounts , investment portfolios or about an attractive variable interest rate option they just heard about . And if they do , I will probably block them . What is more likely is the growth of services like Twitter as highly self-tailored information devices , in the sense that if I 'm investing in corn futures , I have an incentive to follow commodity experts and corn farmers .
financial center is facing , whether from Singapore , Hong Kong or Dubai , which are all located in high-growth regions and less exposed to international political pressure . Other challenges faced by the Swiss banks include increasing fiscal pressure on the Swiss cross-border private banking sector and the eroding profitability of private banking . The regulatory developments taking place abroad , particularly in the US and EU , also have a fundamental impact on the Swiss financial center . The US and EU increasingly demand that Swiss financial services providers respect their national rules for access to their respective markets . The Swiss financial center is currently on the defensive and needs to undertake concerted efforts to reverse this trend . The report calls upon Swiss financial institutions , policy makers , supervisory authorities and academics to endorse change and take proactive measures to be able to thrive in the new economic and regulatory environment that is evolving around them . This strategy should embrace a business model solely based on tax-compliant money - any other business model will fail . The regularization of the past is indispensable and on-going through the negotiation of tax treaties with key partner nations . The setting-up of a withholding tax agreement on future capital gains generated on assets invested in Switzerland is the proper and most sensible way to go . Swiss banks should notably seize the opportunities to reap a greater share of the banking needs of Swiss companies . Today , the country 's 100 largest firms are estimated to carry out banking transactions generating around 10 billion Swiss francs in annual revenues - less than a fifth is captured by Swiss banks . There is no reason why Swiss banks should not be more active in the hedging of Swiss corporates ' currencies , interest rate and commodity risks , and the clearing of their cash and trading flows . Swiss banks could also capture a greater market share in trade finance - an area of crucial importance for a country whose exports make up 54 percent of its GDP . These significant trade flows trigger the need for banking services such as currency exchange , credit protection and export finance . Another area of potential growth is corporate financing . An increasing number of Swiss companies finance themselves on the capital markets - a direct consequence of the tougher regulatory capital requirements which curbs the banks ' ability to lend to the economy . Swiss banks should also be encouraged to finance innovative companies and start-ups , notably using new forms of financing such as crowd funding . Within Switzerland , there is also scope to develop business opportunities with the banks ' retail and private banking clients in the areas of electronic and mobile banking by offering new innovative products and services . The adoption of appropriate national legislation needs to be encouraged so that Swiss banks are able to leverage the afore-mentioned opportunities . Switzerland today acts as a global hub for charitable foundations , with supervised assets estimated at 70 billion Swiss francs . Swiss banks could tap into new and interesting business lines , by broadening the available products and services in the areas of philanthropy , microfinance , sustainable investments and impact investing . More could also be done to attract investment managers - hedge funds - and fund administration to relocate in Switzerland . Swiss banks could gain a significant market share in this growing alternative investment industry , through investments in infrastructure , the provision of a favorable regulatory environment - particularly through a streamlined registration process for new funds . Swiss banks should also provide their corporate clients with improved access to the new growth markets located in Asia , the Middle East and in Latin America . They need to expand their local presence in these regions , so that the resulting business opportunities can be fully exploited . There will , for instance , be extraordinary trade and investment flow with corresponding opportunities for globally active banks . This triggers a need to invest in infrastructure , as few banks are currently in a position to offer global corporate banking services and to handle complex financial flows between developed and emerging markets . Many individuals and companies from these emerging powers may also prefer to carry out some of their banking business in neutral territory - another chance for Swiss banks . Further opportunities exist in international commodities trading . Finally , various currencies , especially the Chinese renminbi , are currently developing into major , internationally traded currencies , providing further opportunities . Switzerland could also aim at becoming the data and infrastructure backbone of the global financial services industry , by investing in excellent and reliable technical infrastructure and business systems for data storage and processing . These could range from the booking and administering of mutual funds and hedge funds , to clearing , settlement and technical infrastructure for alternative exchanges to a real-time global platform for cash management and payments . The common theme of all these long-term opportunities is to embrace a structural change of the Swiss financial services industry through better advice and , new and innovative products , in order to strengthen Switzerland 's position as a financial center . At the beginning of September 2012 , Credit Suisse Chairman Urs Rohner presented a reform agenda named " Switzerland as a Financial Center " , which is aimed at prompting a constructive debate with all of the financial sector 's relevant stakeholders . The measures proposed in the report will hopefully result in concerted actions of both the private and the official sector creating a stable environment and avoiding excessive regulation . The report can be downloaded .
forecasts from the Swiss National Bank ( SNB ) and the major economic research institutes remain negative for the current year and assume only marginal rises in inflation over the coming two years . If they turn out to be correct , Switzerland would be one of the few countries in the world that continue to offer positive net yields . Since August 23 , 2011 , investors have been accepting negative yields - most recently -0.79 percent - at the weekly auctions of Swiss government money market claims . This of course begs the question of why investors would be prepared to accept negative yields not just on the money market but also for longer terms . The answer is not simple . On one hand , the renewed rise in risk aversion in view of the debt problems in Greece and Spain has triggered a flight to secure investments . On the other hand , from the perspective of non-Swiss investors , an investment in Swiss francs represents a diversification element in their portfolios . In addition , passively managed assets tend to reinforce the phenomenon of negative yields because they remain wedded to their positions , regardless of price . Another factor is the flow of funds into indexed products , which is being met with a relatively illiquid market . This forces investors of passively managed portfolios into investments at a yield level that is unsustainable in our view . In recent years , the Swiss Federal Finance Administration has been a net repayer of debt , which has led to a shortfall in the supply of government bonds . In this context , active portfolio management offers the great advantage of flexibility . In other words , in extreme situations , an active investor or asset manager could employ judicious structuring and more flexible allocation in terms of duration and credit spreads to move farther away from their benchmark than would be permitted for a passive portfolio . This would improve the chances of generating a higher return than the passively managed investment model . Will Swiss franc interest rates continue to fall ? We are convinced that the SNB is able and willing to maintain the minimum CHF / EUR exchange rate of 1.2 that was set in September 2011 . In fact , the SNB reaffirmed this commitment following its most recent assessment of monetary policy . In any case , a look at the Euroswiss futures market confirms that the SNB 's monetary policy clearly has credibility because it implies negative money market interest rates for at least another two years . However , given the ongoing tensions on the markets , the SNB is likely to have to make a major effort . Since mid-May the sight deposits of banks with the SNB have risen by approx. CHF 37 billion . This could be an indication of the level of funds that will have to be deployed to defend the minimum CHF / EUR exchange rate of 1.20 . We believe that the prospect of a further drop in interest rates has now receded and that the risk of rising interest rates has increased .
launch pad for an amazing career such as that of cellist Sol Gabetta ; on the other hand , the event at the Lucerne Culture and Convention Center can brutally expose the limits of a young musician such as … well , no-one actually : Luckily , in the history of the prize , which was first launched in 2000 , there have not been any negative examples ; instead , there are just nuances between high and the very highest levels . So what does the very highest level mean for Vilde Frang ? Perfection ? We need to guard against false ideas of perfection , explained the violinist to journalist Urs Mattenberger from " Più " magazine . After all , perfection would signify an easing of tension , she says . " But after every concert I want to do better . So I prefer to take risks when I 'm playing , and to accept a couple of minor errors . " If she did really make any errors in the prizewinner 's concert , these would have gone unnoticed to the general audience . In a successful dialogue with Bernard Haitink and the orchestra , Vilde Frang delivered the perfect rendition ; in other words , one with tension , one with emotionality , with her - in the words of Ingeborg Waldinger in the Austrian daily Wiener Zeitung - totally unique , poetic voice : fire and ice , strength and silence . The violin concerto in D minor , op . 47 , by Jean Sibelius is not new to Vilde Frang 's repertoire . She recorded it for EMI in March 2009 with the WDR Cologne Symphony Orchestra conducted by Thomas Søndergård . Her CD can therefore be purchased and compared with the concert being broadcast on Radio DRS2 at 20:00 on Thursday , December 13 . How has she developed over these past three-and-a-half years ? Has her playing become more mature , more grown-up , ( even ) better ? Mention such ideas and Vilde Frang looks at you with her incredibly big round eyes and at the same time smiles warmly . First , growing up is very dangerous . You do at least have to try to keep the spontaneity of childhood alive in your adult life , she says ; second , who would want to play the love of a 22-year-old off against that of a 26-year-old ? " A piece of music changes and almost grows with you . It 's no different than with love " , she explains . " With a word like love , we also associate very different things depending on the experiences and phase in life that we 're going through . In precisely the same way , we can constantly identify new aspects in a piece of music . " Although this represents a progression , it is only vaguely subsumable with the concept of quality . Vilde Frang combines the music of Sibelius and its expression of melancholy and desolation with the Nordic landscapes in which she was raised , and which represent a significant element of her identity even though she has lived in Munich for a number of years now . Incidentally , she debuted at the Lucerne Festival on September 15 , 2009 , with the work of the Finnish composer when she interpreted the three humoresques of Sibelius , among other works , with pianist Julien Quentin . This performance had its origins in a less successful experience in Lucerne : In spring 2004 , she reached the final of the Eurovision Young Musicians contest in Lucerne but went home empty-handed . Even so , back then she managed to make a positive impression on jury member Michael Haefliger , Artistic and Executive Director of Lucerne Festival . If it 's true that we learn most from failure , Vilde Frang benefited enormously from this one - which was n't actually a failure in any case : Her musical future belongs to her , and it finally began with the 2012 prizewinner 's concert . Welcome to Viva Open a Viva Banking Package now and get a Ticketcorner Voucher worth CHF 50 .
The Forum 's aim is to show that Switzerland 's future as a business location , a place for thinking and working is dependant on a powerful financial center . I was approached by highly committed individuals . They were obviously looking for someone who was n't a parliamentarian ( any more ) ! - It was n't long before the elections , and I had decided not to run for office again . Personally , I strongly believe in the qualities and the importance of the Swiss financial center . The decision was thus easy for me as a politically-minded citizen . It 's no coincidence . We first tried to build a " communication platform " with members of parliament and financial center specialists . There 's no reason why businesspeople and employees ca n't join the Forum . However , the number of members has to be limited , as we want the Forum to stay manageable . We 're very satisfied with what has been achieved to date . The public is very interested in the topics we cover . Our impact is continually improving and expanding . After all , the Forum was founded less than three years ago . I think so . Businesspeople are now aware that the banks ca n't replace equity capital that is lacking . In individual cases , it obviously hurts to be turned down when circumstances are difficult . That 's natural . But the banks have had to learn the hard way when it comes to loans . Those financial institutions that successfully carve out a place in the market will survive . The big banks can push home the advantage of their size , while the small ones will be better off as niche players . However , the term " critical mass " is n't an absolute concept , as it has to be considered in relation to what a company is offering . We actually take a stance on the issues that concern us , irrespective of the matters being voted on . However , also expressing our opinion on issues concerning the financial center - whether directly or indirectly - that are the subject of voting campaigns cannot fail to strengthen our profile . I do n't see any risk of jeopardizing our fundamental commitment , as we weigh matters up very carefully before making our statements . A " No " vote would jeopardize the agreements in the " Bilateral I " dossier , which are crucial for the Swiss economy . The Swiss financial center would also suffer the consequences directly . Therefore , in line with those in economic circles , we are in favor of the extension of the free movement of persons with the EU . Banking secrecy is an important factor for the success of the Swiss financial center . It 's not the only one , but it 's definitely a major one , together with political stability , moderate taxes and significant expertise in asset management . It 's not an unfair competitive advantage in my view . The state 's protection of its citizens ' privacy is part of our liberal view of a nation . This is something we can be proud of . Swiss banking secrecy offers criminals no protection . Switzerland has been playing a leading role in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism for many years now . Banking secrecy is a cornerstone of the success of the Swiss financial center . We should do what we can to ensure its survival .
They 're individuals who are living their lives for music , with music , and because of music . I do n't think people in normal lines of work have anything comparable . We might have great and interesting jobs , but that level of commitment is something else . You want them all to succeed , and it 's tough that there can be only one winner . " Credit Suisse , the Vienna Philharmonic , the Geslleschaft der Musikfreunde in Wien , and the Lucerne Festival established the award back in 2000 with the shared intent of supporting young talent and investing in a collective cultural future at a significant international level . It is not a competition in the conventional sense . Its five jury members nominate one candidate each ; the decision-making process includes an hour-long recital covering a broad range of musical epochs and an interview , and the jury reaches its verdict through a process of open discussion . For the 2012 award , the jury included Prof . Dr . Dieter Flury of the Vienna Philharmonic , Dr Peter Hagmann , critic for the Neue Züricher Zeitung , and the American Academy 's Pamela Rosenberg , former Artistic Director of the Berlin Philharmonic , alongside Haefliger . The final decision in favour of Frang was unanimous . " She has a range of colours in her playing which really surprised us in someone so young , " said Rosenberg . " She 's incredibly mature for her age , and has both expressive power and stylistic assurance . She also has an immense honesty in performance - it really comes from an inner connection to the music . " Something of that directness emerges in conversation with Frang . Her mane of chestnut hair remains determinedly tousled even in publicity photographs , and her eyes widen with ingenuous astonishment at the suggestion that for a young woman who has already recorded her third disc for the EMI label and performed at many of the world 's leading Festivals , with many great conductors , and on many important concert stages , yet another award might not be such a big deal . " Oh ! " she breathes , genuinely amazed . " Of course it is ! The big circus that comes with awards and scholarships and prizes is one thing . But an engagement like this is something else altogether . That 's what makes it special - at THIS Festival , with THIS orchestra , with a conductor who has been my hero for years - it feels like paradise ! " Michael Haefliger Frang numbers several previous recipients of the Credit Suisse Young Artist Award amongst her circle of friends , and she has given a recital as part of the Lucerne Festival 's " Young " series . As a student of Kolja Blacher , Concertmaster of the Lucerne Festival Orchestra , she was a regular visitor - and fan - of the Lucerne Festival . A concert there with the prestigious Vienna Philharmonic - not an orchestra which otherwise allots much programming space in its calendar to lesser-known young soloists - is a dream come true . " I grew up with the Vienna Philharmonic 's recordings , " says Frang . " I watch their New Year 's concert every year . I know these faces already , and they do n't have a clue about me . So it 's a fantastic thing . The Lucerne Festival has been such a large part of my life for so many years ; I 've always wanted to aim forwards . " A further reason for Frang 's 2012 victory , according to jury member Peter Hagmann , was her innate sense of musicality in contemporary repertoire - an aspect which ties in well with the Lucerne Festival 's support for new music as well as for young artists . " She says that Mozart is important for her , that Bach is important for her , and she approaches the music of Lutoslawski with exactly the same self-evident attitude , " says Hagmann . " She uses all her emotional power to communicate this to her public . I think that is a prerequisite for an artist living in the here and now today - that they can not only play this music , but also recognise and care for it , fill it with emotion , and communicate something of their own . She does this in a unique way . " The daughter of a professional double-bass player , Olso-born Frang always assumed that she would also tend towards the bottom of the string group . Her older sister also played the double bass , and as a toddler , it was the instrument which defined her horizon . " My father decided I should play the violin instead , " she remembers . " He said that there would be no room in our small family car for three double-basses , so we could n't go on holidays unless I played something smaller ! " From the moment she picked up her first violin as a four-year-old , Frang never looked back . " It immediately felt right . And although I never found practising in itself intriguing , it was always part of my day . To play was fun . " At the age of 11 , Frang impressed Anne-Sophie Mutter so profoundly that the eminent German violinist began to play a role in her life as a mentor ; it is Mutter 's Freundeskreis Stiftung that Frank has furnished the violin Frang plays , a 19th-century Jean-Baptiste Vuillaume , and it was Mutter who encouraged her , at the age of 17 , to move to Germany and study privately with Blacher . The rest cannot be said , yet , to be history ; on the contrary , this seems to be a story that is just beginning . Frang agrees . " This is one of the great moments of my life ; and I 'm quite sure the value of this award is something that will keep growing as the years go by . " For Frang , growing older also means growing into repertoire that it has taken her time to approach . As a young child , she says , she could only listen to Mozart and Haydn ; Holst and Mussorgsky would have her trembling with genuine terror , much to her sister 's amusement , while Tchaikovsky would reduce her to floods of helpless tears . " Music always had a very strong impact on me - maybe too strong , " Frang says . " And it 's still the same . At a horror movie , I can watch the images , but I ca n't listen to the music . " Welcome to Viva Open a Viva Banking Package now and get a Ticketcorner Voucher worth CHF 50 .
life expectancy is currently 73.7 years for men and 76.8 years for women . It is a fact that life patterns are changing . The boundaries between the individual life stages are becoming increasingly blurred . So are the lines between education and gainful employment - thanks to longer study programs and lifelong learning - and those between work and retirement , as a result of flexible retirement options . Until now , the regulatory framework of AHV has only reacted cautiously to these changes and challenges . Astonishing , considering that we can forecast fairly reliably that the population will age . Depending on the assumptions , scenarios and models can differ slightly , but they remain the same in their basic message : The ratio of older people to people of working age has increased steadily over the course of time and will , in the future , change even more rapidly to the detriment of the younger generation . This trend places a growing strain on the pay-as-you-go AHV and charts the road into deficit . Though in an international comparison , Switzerland is still doing very well in terms of their retirement provision with the three-pillar system composed of occupational and private pension schemes , in addition to the AHV state pension . In around half of OECD countries , people will need to work longer in the future before they can retire . In contrast , little has changed in Switzerland since increasing the retirement age for women from 62 to 64 years of age under the 10th AHV revision . The uniform retirement age of 65 for both men and women was rejected with the 11th AHV revision of 2010 . What needs to be done in order to also secure pensions in the long term for future generations ? Reforms of the AHV can basically target either funding or benefits . Discussions on funding focus mainly on a higher percentage of wages or tax increases ( usually a value-added tax increase ) . But raising the percentage of wages increases the labor production factor . As a result , it burdens only the current workforce and has a more drastic impact on competitiveness than a value-added tax increase . A higher value-added tax , however , also has a negative economic impact in that it raises the cost of private consumption . On the benefits side , pension standards can be adjusted , limiting expenses to some extent . But this does nothing to change the growing burden on the active generations from the growing number of retirees under the pay-as-you-go system . This burden can only be counteracted in a sustainable manner by changing the mathematical ratio between those entitled to a pension and those contributing . There is no alternative to raising the statutory retirement age or making it flexible in an upward direction . Implementing a debt brake for social insurance along with adequate automated processes would be helpful in achieving this . And extending the length of working life has long since ceased to be a revolutionary idea . According to a recent study by the Federal Social Insurance Office , more and more working people in Switzerland are continuing to work past the retirement age . From 2008 to 2011 , this number averaged just over one-third . In contrast , the trend toward extending early retirement has weakened , although in past decades , retirement provision regulations and a concerted focus on youth in the job market fostered this trend . There is therefore a substantial potential pool of workers who would like to continue working . However , the job market lacks a systematic human resources policy to address this proven need . In order to promote the employment of older workers by creating more flexible conditions to take full advantage of their experience and expertise , employers will have to rethink their position . This is in their own interest , too , as they will soon be confronted with an increasingly aging staff .
goes well beyond the scope of Escher 's letters . And even in the digicam era , there is probably nothing that can fully replace a face-to-face exchange of academic opinions . The digital edition of Alfred Escher 's letters represents a new milestone in historical research - in more ways than one . It sets a new benchmark for educational technology in this field . At the start of the project , the pioneering online editions of letters ( in particular those of the composer Carl Maria von Weber and the painter Vincent van Gogh ) were the key objective for the team headed by Professor Joseph Jung , Managing Director and Head of Research and Documentation at the Alfred Escher Foundation , together with project managers Daniel Hochstrasser and Bruno Fischer . But experts now consider that the team has been able to go well beyond this remit thanks to interdisciplinary cooperation ( which even included assistance from a theoretical physicist ) . This opinion was endorsed by the Institute for Documentology and Scholarly Editing in Cologne , which collaborated on this major project in an advisory capacity , when it chose " State of The Art : The Digital Edition of the Letters of Alfred Escher " as the title for the collection . " The digital version includes the volumes that have already been printed ( and will incorporate those to be published in the future ) , as well as a varied range of additional content and functions . It represents the current state of the art in digital scholarly editing . Apart from the complete digitization of the material , this new version includes a number of noteworthy special features , such as multiple text reproduction ( both critical and diplomatic ) , the chronology , the register of people and places , the linkage of text and images , and the personalization options - to mention but a few . " In other words , the digital edition leaves nothing to be desired , and it offers so much interesting and useful extra information that it is no easy matter for readers to focus on one original letter without becoming sidetracked among the vast amount of material provided . It goes without saying that the main focus of this edition is the person for whom it is named . But as well as yielding new knowledge about Alfred Escher and his extensive network , the project has also delivered a compact " Who 's Who " of Switzerland in Escher 's day , referred to as the " Escher System . " This new source has shed light on many areas of research relating to the 19th century , both as regards detailed questions and in terms of the broader context . The aspects covered include business , culture , mentality and society , Swiss foreign policy and - more generally - the history of the city and canton of Zurich , and indeed the history of Switzerland as a whole . There were appropriately enthusiastic comments from the guests invited to the vernissage , headed by the two patrons of the online edition : National Council President Hansjörg Walter and Walter B. Kielholz , Chairman of the Board of Directors of Swiss Re and Chairman of the Alfred Escher Foundation . The media also paid ample tribute to the achievements of Alfred Escher and the new possibilities opened up by the digital edition of his letters . Writing in the renowned German weekly " Die Zeit " , however , Daniele Muscionico took advantage of this timely opportunity to remind us once again of a " female tragedy , " namely the unhappy fate of Alfred Escher 's daughter Lydia . According to Joseph Jung 's biography of her , published in 2008 under the title " Lydia Welti-Escher , " it seems likely that she was merely preaching to the converted when she voiced her vehement opinions ; prosaic though the book 's title may be , it contains new facts about the notorious love-affair between Lydia Welti-Escher and the painter Karl Stauffer-Bern , finally demonstrating that Federal Councillor Welti really was involved in the scandal as well . And in his book " Das imaginäre Museum " ( " The Imaginary Museum " ) , published back in 1998 , Jung had already revealed the irresponsible use of funds by the government-administered Gottfried Keller Foundation , Lydia Escher 's brainchild . In his address at the vernissage , Jung described Alfred Escher as the " Swiss citizen who has had the greatest impact on his country . " The " Basler Zeitung " endorsed this view by equating Escher with his contemporary Jacob Burckhardt and concluding : " Alfred Escher was a very great man . "
Moreover , a low burden of debt gave the federal government a certain amount of latitude , which was put to good use particularly on the cantonal and municipal level . Overall , Switzerland 's economic output increased by about 1 percent last year . This year , economic growth may even increase its pace somewhat . Exports may experience the biggest acceleration of all demand components . According to forecasts by Credit Suisse Economic Research , export volume this year will increase by 4 percent following stagnation last year . First , a moderately better demand situation abroad is likely to act as a stimulus to export sales . Second , the SNB is likely to continue successfully defending the lower limit set for the euro exchange rate . However , this may combine with the higher inflation seen abroad to trigger steady real depreciation in the Swiss franc . Ultimately , costs will rise more gradually for Swiss-based companies than for their competitors abroad , while the euro exchange rate will remain constant at around 1.20 Swiss francs . Furthermore , Swiss exporters are increasingly likely to turn their attention away from crisis-hit Europe toward dynamically growing regions of the world - specifically Asia . It would be unrealistic , however , to expect a complete decoupling from Europe , because of the close interconnections between the economic regions . This will combine with the still overvalued price of the Swiss franc to mute any recovery in exports that occurs this year . Capital expenditure is also likely to experience a slight acceleration . For expenditures on equipment , Economic Research expects growth of 3 percent this year following 2 percent the previous year . The low interest rate environment , which is expected to remain in place until at least the end of the year , will provide fertile ground for the expected growth in capital expenditure . On the other hand , numerous uncertainties , as well as below-average rates of capacity utilization , continue to restrain companies ' capital expenditures . Experts anticipate that construction investment will show growth of 2 percent compared to a drop by the same percentage last year . The reversal in construction investment suggested by this change from negative to positive is probably a temporary rather than a real effect . Revenues in the construction industry have been volatile for a number of years now , although the trend remains upward . The fall in revenues in 2012 was attributable to a combination of the cold spell at the start of the year and capacity bottlenecks in execution . It was not possible to recoup these revenue losses over the course of the year and continue the extremely dynamic growth of the year immediately preceding . While the high demand for housing and the many residences already under construction suggest there is further potential for growth over the medium term , the volatile revenue trend indicates that the industry is reaching its upper limit for growth . Private consumption will probably remain a key pillar for economic growth . However , forecasts suggest that the extreme dynamism of 2012 will not be repeated - after 2 percent last year , Economic Research is expecting an increase of 1.5 percent in 2013 . The slight weakening in growth is due to marginal downturns in various factors underlying the growth in consumption , among other things . First , 2013 immigration rates may decline slightly from the previous year . Second , the rate of unemployment may increase slightly , according to assessments by Economic Research . Third , inflation , once again creeping upward , may completely cancel out the modest gain in nominal wages , expected to come in at just under 1 percent . Moreover , in response to dropping prices , consumers may already have made some of the purchases in the previous year that they planned for this year . This premature demand may now " take away " from demand in 2013 . However , if the exchange rate remains stable , shopping tourism may not worsen . The government may also increase its consumer spending less sharply than in the previous year . The predicted slowdown in growth from 2 percent the previous year to 1.5 percent in 2013 is not objectionable . Although government can be a welcome stabilizing factor in times of difficulty , an expanding public sector tends to be detrimental to competitiveness over the long term . The era of falling prices is over . The favorable import prices due to the strong Swiss franc have been passed on , at least to some extent . According to a study by the Federal Department of Economic Affairs , roughly 40 percent of the " euro bonus " reached end customers . The fact that it was passed on is also the main reason why prices reached a level in 2012 that was decidedly below that of the preceding year . Experience shows that price advantages due to the exchange rate are passed on within three to four quarters . Because the Swiss franc has not increased in value for almost one and a half years as a result of the euro exchange limit set at 1.20 , no further euro bonus can be expected going forward . Even if inflation rates are on the plus side , the mild inflation conditions may remain in place for quite a while longer . Economic Research therefore predicts an average inflation rate of 0.4 percent for 2013 .
's leaders and many foreign banks are confident that 2013 will bring an investment-grade credit rating . " I think people had sort of forgotten about the Philippines … they fell off the radar because governance problems and political instability masked their assets , such as untapped mining resources and a youthful population , " Credit Suisse economist Santitarn Sathirathai said . Sathirathai noted that average annual foreign direct investment in the Philippines was only$ 2 billion or less for the past five years . " Now ( the Philippines ) are back on the map , I think that the impact of investor visibility could be significant , " he said . Progress has come on several fronts . The government has signed a preliminary peace agreement with Muslim rebels , which could end a long insurgency and improve the investment climate . While previous President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo has battled several corruption charges , current leader Benigno Aquino III has vowed to crack down on such abuses , encouraging investor confidence . The Philippines , which has many English speakers and a focus on services such as business process outsourcing , has a new opportunity to compete with China for manufacturing jobs amid rising Chinese labor costs . Last year , as a territorial dispute between Japan and China sparked anti-Japanese protests in China , Japanese investment rose more than 10 percent via the Philippine Economic Zone Authority , which promotes investment in export-producing industries . Many Japanese companies are expanding their presence in the Philippines - Canon Business Machines Inc . , for example , is at work on a plant to build laser printers . Meanwhile , the government is pushing public-private partnerships to improve or expand expressways , airports and schools , while real estate developers are targeting a growing middle class and wealthy Filipinos eyeing prestige properties . Developer Century Properties Group is at work on several such projects , including the Trump Tower Manila and a residence conceived with Philippe Starck 's residential design company . Yet the Philippines , coming from so far behind many of its neighbors , faces big challenges ahead . Though the government is working on infrastructure , there are still deterrents for business people , such as worn-out airports and poor telecommunications , says J. Alfonso de Dios , a Filipino who has companies both in China and his home country . De Dios , whose TVCXpress Manila sends digitized TV commercials and program content to local TV stations via exclusive broadband lines within the Philippines , says the country 's Internet infrastructure is not designed with wide bandwidths to accommodate large files . He says that it would actually be much cheaper to send the video packages his company produces from his Philippines office to a neighboring country with stronger bandwidth , and then back to his clients in the Philippines . Tourism is another area where the country could stand to ramp up infrastructure . While the Philippines boasts thousands of islands and some of the world 's most beautiful beaches , less than 2 percent of GDP revenue comes from tourism , compared to 7 or 8 percent in Thailand or Malaysia , Credit Suisse 's Sathirathai said . The country is pushing a new tourism campaign with the slogan , " It 's More Fun in the Philippines , " and a big casino complex is set to open in Manila Bay . Bill Barnett , the managing director of tourism consultancy and research company C9 Hotelworks , questions whether casinos are enough , and says it might be wise to diversify with theme parks or other attractions for middle-class , multi-generational Asian families . The Philippines - which , like Japan , is in the midst of a territorial dispute with China - also needs to lure tourists from China , who prefer Thailand and Indonesia , Barnett said . The country is betting big on gaming , and if the Chinese do n't come , who will ? " The attitude toward the Chinese needs to be , ' Let 's kiss and make up - and by the way , please come visit , ' " he said .
mining sector , which makes up nearly 9 percent of national GDP , may have peaked this spring . Overall economic growth slowed to 2.5 percent last quarter from a decade-long average rate of 3 percent , despite the fact that the Reserve Bank of Australia has cut interest rates by two percentage points since 2011 to help spur growth . " Australia has no room for complacency , " Greg Evans , Chief Economist at the Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry told Credit Suisse . " We 've seen the dividends from the mining boom , but in order to lock in those benefits , the rest of the economy needs to become more effective . " The future may lie with companies like Canva , which has a casually hip open-plan office in Sydney 's fashionable Surry Hills neighborhood . On a recent visit to the Australian startup 's digs , 21-year-old Zach Kitschke demonstrated a promotional video of the company 's drop-and-drag design platform that allows non-designers to create blog layouts , small business websites , posters and other simple design projects . The voiceover artist in the slick video had an American accent - not an Australian one . Kitschke , Canva 's " chief storyteller " - Millennial generation nomenclature for marketing and public relations - explained that the choice was deliberate . " We 're definitely approaching the business with a global focus , " he said . In fact , Canva will launch simultaneously in Australia and the US in July , joining the ranks of a new breed of Australian startups that aim to be global businesses from day one . The buzz around Australia 's startups has been growing . An index created by Startup Genome - itself a startup - this year ranked Sydney and Melbourne 12th and 18th , respectively , among the world 's 20 best places for tech entrepreneurs , using measures such as total entrepreneurship activity , job creation and revenue growth . But one ingredient is in short supply : funding . Australian venture capital activity declined by 4 percent last fiscal year to 122 million Australian dollars , largely due to concerns about the global economy , according to a November report by the Australian Private Equity and Venture Capital Association . But the number of Australian companies receiving venture investments rose by 9 percent to 83 . The organization noted that several established startups , such as BigCommerce , a Melbourne-based business that creates online stores for small and medium-sized businesses , have attracted large amounts of capital from established foreign venture capital firms . BigCommerce , which has processed nearly 1 billion Australian dollars in transactions , recently raised 20 million from General Catalyst Partners and Floodgate , two well-known American venture funds . And Atlassian , an enterprise software company with headquarters in Sydney , has become something of a local hero for raising a whopping 60 million-dollar Series A round in 2010 from Palo Alto-based Accel Partners . But a mismatch remains . Startup Genome ranked Sydney , Australia 's largest startup hub , fifth out of 20 cities for the level of tech startup activity , but 15th on access to venture capital . The report noted that funding comes disproportionately from friends , family , incubators and entrepreneurs themselves . Niki Scevak , co-founder of Blackbird Ventures , a Sydney venture capital fund , says entrepreneurs face serious difficulty when they try to raise a first significant funding round of between 1 million and 10 million Australian Dollars . " There is a real gap in Series A funding , " Scevak said . " There 's a serious need for more VC firms to help these startups . " Blackbird is aiming to fund five to 10 Australian tech companies each year but is only interested in those with global potential . Since February , Blackbird says it has seen 105 companies that fit the bill - including Canva , which the fund has invested in. " It 's increasingly easy to sell these ideas around the world now , " Scevak said . " The very smartest of Australia 's young graduates are considering becoming entrepreneurs now instead of just doctors or lawyers . " Canva co-founders Melanie Perkins , Cliff Obrecht and Cameron Adams , an ex-Google designer , are all under 30 . This is the second startup for Perkins and Obrecht , who in 2007 launched Fusion Books , an online publishing system for school yearbooks that currently has 10 percent of the Australian market and also operates in New Zealand and France . Earlier this year , Canva raised 3 million Australian dollars in seed funding from venture firms in New York and Silicon Valley , as well as angel investors that included Google Maps creator Lars Rasmussen . The company was recently invited to join Sir Richard Branson at a MaiTai Global event , a kite surfing camp for entrepreneurs and athletes founded by venture capitalist Bill Tai and professional kite surfer Susi Mai , on Necker Island , Branson 's private outpost in the British Virgin Islands . When charting its path to global business success , Canva has a role model in Genero.tv , a crowdsourced online video platform that allows filmmakers to create music videos or promotional films for artists and brands . Launched in Melbourne in 2009 , Genero.tv works with Sony , Warner Bros . and Universal Music Group , as well as brands such as Yoplait and MillerCoors . Genero.tv videos have been shown at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival , the Cannes International Film Festival and the British Film Institute . " We self-funded until January 2012 , and up until that point there were just two of us , " said co-founder Mick Entwisle , who is still based in their Melbourne office , while partner Andrew Lane works in New York . While Entwistle said the company will always keep a Melbourne office , he says they had a global orientation out of the gate : " From the beginning , we focused on key creative hubs ­ - London , New York and Los Angeles - and traveled a lot to get relationships on the music side , " he explained . " The Australian market was n't big enough . " Entwisle said he found enough qualified developers in Australia for Genero.tv ' s needs , but tech industry players are nevertheless worried about the talent pipeline . Last month , Google Australia petitioned the government to mandate computer science classes from kindergarten until 10th grade , saying that only 2 percent of Australian graduates have advanced computer science skills . The country 's relative isolation could also be an obstacle . The Global Entrepreneurship Monitor found that Australia was below average in the proportion of early-stage entrepreneurs with an international orientation , with geographic distance being the most obvious reason . But that 's changing , and that 's very good news for a country that has relied on a turbocharged Chinese growth engine that appears destined for slower long-term growth . A recent PricewaterhouseCoopers report commissioned by Google Australia estimated that the tech sector could add 103 billion Australian dollars , or 4 percent of GDP , and 540,000 new jobs to the Australian economy by 2033 . Australia 's entrepreneurs surely are n't launching companies out of altruistic concern for their home economy 's need to diversify , but emerging Made-in-Oz tech startups are having that effect nonetheless .
stroke . While it may appear easy , even monotonous , when viewed from the shore , rowing is a strenuous sport that requires skill and coordination . " One motion follows the next , smoothly and harmoniously . There 's no beginning or end , " Cornelia explains . " A jerky movement would upset the boat 's delicate balance and throw us off course . " The rowers ' smooth , cyclical movements would seem to induce a meditative state , but Cornelia never allows herself to get lost in thought . On the contrary : " Rowing requires my full concentration , since there is so much to keep track of : keeping my legs , arms , and upper body at precisely the proper angles , transferring energy to the sculls as efficiently as possible , the rhythm of my fellow rowers . If I were to start daydreaming or mulling over a problem , the boat would quickly go off course . Concentrating solely on my physical movements and on the here and now is a perfect way to take a break from my everyday responsibilities . " Even the panorama disappears from view , at least for a while - since rowers face not where they 're headed , but where they 're coming from ; their gaze is fixed on their point of departure . Only when they turn around , after about five kilometers , does Cornelia have a couple of minutes to relax and admire the scenery , bathed in the morning light . The sunrise , snow-covered mountains , families of swans - all of it so beautiful that it seems almost unreal . Back at their starting point , she takes a deep breath , then returns to the clubhouse . After a quick shower , she heads to work at the Uetlihof , where she arrives no later than 8:30 a.m . It was at a team event eight years ago that Cornelia was first introduced to rowing . Immediately drawn to a sport that takes place in the fresh air , and fascinated by its complex technical requirements , she underwent the necessary basic training and then joined the Zurich rowing club . Since then she has trained nearly every morning - on the water or , in stormy weather , on a rowing machine . Does n't she get tired of waking up so early ? " Oh , no , " she says with a smile . " I sleep in on the weekends - training does n't start until 7:30 . " Nor is she worried that she 'll eventually find rowing monotonous . She loves the sport - " the feeling you get when everything goes well , when the boat flies across the water " - and training , too , is anything but boring . Cornelia is a member of several different rowing teams that use a variety of boats : On Monday she 's in the eight , which is her favorite because it uses energy most efficiently and travels across the lake at the highest rate of speed . On Tuesdays and Wednesdays she trains in a double scull , on Thursdays in a pair - where the rowers use one oar rather than two - and on Fridays in a four or in a quadruple scull . On the weekends she sometimes goes out in a single , also known as a skiff . " With so many types of boats , there 's always something new to learn , " Cornelia explains . " My next goal is to get better at controlling the skiff . " Competing in a regatta is not one of her goals , however , since that would require even more training , not to mention more time in the weight room . " I 'll continue to take part in friendly competitions from time to time , but aside from that I just want to improve , so I 'm working on my technique . My recent training with the German national team in Dortmund made it abundantly clear that I have room for improvement , " Cornelia admits with a laugh . Working with a team is one aspect of rowing that she particularly enjoys . " That may sound trite , since team spirit is important in any number of sports . But when you 're rowing , you really have to focus on ­coordinating your movements with those of your teammates , much more so than in basketball or football , for example , " she says . " It 's counterproductive to focus only on yourself , since we 're all in the same boat - literally - and pulling together . " Zurich Rowing Club
Anezka Christovova , a currency strategist at Credit Suisse , argued there was no evidence of " substantial manipulation " in the past year by the G4 economies , which include the US , EU , Japan and Britain . Any talk suggesting otherwise , the report said , was " much ado about nothing . " " In our view , what we are primarily seeing is a move to increasingly experimental monetary policies aimed at boosting domestic demand , " Deverell and Christovova said in reference to the massive asset-buying programs of the United States and Japan . Policymakers have had to resort to these " non-conventional policies " because lowering interest rates to near zero in response to the global recession failed to revive their stricken economies . " While this has had an impact on exchange rates , it has not been the focus , " they said , adding that in " real effective terms , " the dollar , yen , euro and sterling were within 10 percent of the 30-year average . " There is little evidence that current exchange rates are substantially out of equilibrium , " Deverell and Christovova explained . " Based on the Credit Suisse fair value model , the ( Chinese ) RMB is the only currency significantly undervalued at present . " It is not only emerging market currencies that have been appreciating in value . Despite deep economic problems in the Eurozone , the euro had been strengthening before the bailout of Cyprus was announced , fuelling fears that a strong currency could hurt European exporters and further delay the region 's recovery . The euro began rising again once Cypriot banks reopened , and continued as Japan announced its most recent stimulus . The main reason for the euro 's strength , according to Credit Suisse , had been the reduction in the size of the European Central Bank 's balance sheet as euro-area banks began repaying emergency loans to the ECB . The ECB balance sheet is shrinking just when the US Federal Reserve ( Fed ) and the Bank of Japan ( BOJ ) are expanding theirs through their respective asset-buying programs , putting upward pressure on the euro . Credit Suisse expects the euro , which has been trading around USD 1.28 , could reach USD 1.40 in the next year , as the Fed buys 85 billion dollars in assets a month and the BOJ recently announced it would accelerate government bond purchases to nearly 84 trillion yen this year , the equivalent of 17 percent of GDP . However , the bank noted that downside risks to the euro were building as European economic conditions deteriorated . The latest Markit composite purchasing managers ' index , which measures activity in the manufacturing and services sectors , came in at 46.5 in March , compared with 47.9 in February , indicating further contraction in those industries . Markit Chief Economist Chris Williamson said the data suggested the Eurozone recession was " deepening . " European Central Bank President Mario Draghi recently did not rule out an interest rate cut at the ECB 's policy meeting in May , and he left open the door to the use of " non-standard measures " to revive the economy , such as bond purchases . With the major economies expected to continue their quantitative easing programs for the duration of 2013 , Credit Suisse warned that emerging market policymakers , especially those who intervene to fix exchange rates , a process known as a dirty float , were " unlikely to be passive bystanders . " In a report entitled " The ' Real ' Currency Wars , " Credit Suisse said it expected to see " many dirty floats getting even dirtier over the coming year . "
involves analyzing the asset allocation of specific clients , or more general talks about trends in the equity and bond markets . We ensure a regular proactive approach with clients , and make every effort to always stay on top of their latest needs . This also helps to know the client better , seek new business and stay ahead of the competition . I typically begin my day at 6:45 a.m . , by reading my overnight emails and latest market news while making my way into the office . When I arrive at work at 7:00 a.m . , I have my coffee while reading the morning papers at The Italian , a restaurant located in our building . Following this , I start to map out my day , planning who I am going to call , start writing my first emails and making my first calls . By 7:45 a.m . the day is off and running . Calls and emails are out and coming back in. From then on , each working day is determined by my clients ' needs . A relationship manager 's day is very much shaped by his or her clients . If they are in transaction mode , then these deals obviously take a lot of my focus . Private Banking Australia works very closely with all the business areas of the Investment Bank in Australia and sometimes in Asia , depending on the nature of the deals . Preparing for client governance or investment committee meetings , such as monthly or quarterly review meetings , is another part of the job . I ensure that I 've got enough thinking time so I can analyze what my clients have told me , and what is taking place on the financial markets . You need a bit of clean air to process this type of information . I also set aside time for relationship prospecting , and do a lot of research on particular prospects , whose business I 'm looking to win . Building trust with existing clients and prospective ones , while positioning the bank , is crucial . It 's worth mentioning that a lot of the new business that we 're getting is through word of mouth from existing clients . At the end of the day , a complete level of trust is the basis of our business . I view the future very positively for our business . Australia is a well-structured , transparent economy and a good place to do business . Our clients very much value Credit Suisse 's true Swiss banking experience , and the products and services offered . Prior to the financial turmoil , Australians were heavily invested in domestic equities or local property . Today , and as a direct result of the crisis , Australian investors have realized that diversification is critical , and that foreign assets could improve returns and reduce volatility . Credit Suisse 's 157-year experience certainly also helps the bank in Australia . Highlighting that we have successfully managed private client money through cycles of high inflation , deflation , high growth , low growth , stock market crashes and rallies , while maintaining the highest level of professionalism , holds instant appeal for Australians . "
We expect these trends to continue . Over the next 12 months , it is likely that the relative outperformance of emerging market consumption will accelerate for four key reasons : ( 1 ) as implied by the relative momentum in lead indicators , ( 2 ) real wages and income growth in the emerging economies continue to top those in developed markets , ( 3 ) China is focused on policies aimed at promoting greater domestic consumption , and ( 4 ) ageing and over-leveraged developed markets continue to suffer a downward adjustment to household consumption . The overall survey results endorse this positive macro view with consumers ' optimistic about the immediate outlook continuing to improve . 37 percent of respondents see an improvement in their financial position in the next six months versus 9 percent seeing a deterioration , a net 3 percent improvement on last year . However , the aggregate macro data disguise a picture that is far from uniform within and between the emerging economies . Our survey shines a spotlight on this . Of the eight countries included in the Consumer Survey , optimism on the financial outlook is strongest in Brazil , China , Indonesia and Saudi Arabia . In Brazil , 66 percent of respondents to the survey said they expected an improvement in their personal finances over the next six months . The proportion of consumers in China , Indonesia and Saudi Arabia who expected an improvement in their personal finances over the next six months came to 44 percent , 42 percent and 33 percent , respectively . At the other end of the scale , the greatest degree of pessimism in financial prospects was recorded in South Africa , Russia and Turkey . Specifically , our survey results showed that nearly as many South Africans ( 22 percent ) predicted a worse financial position as those who expected some improvement ( 28 percent ) over the next six months . In a much milder form , we do recall our 2010 survey with regards to Egypt . Our survey results then showed that 38 percent of Egyptians expected a deterioration in their financial outlook compared with 12 percent who expected an improvement . While there is a danger in unduly striking parallels , we do remember the social unrest that subsequently became apparent in Egypt in spring 2011 . We now of course have witnessed the widespread strikes that have affected South Africa over the course of H2 2012 . When we compare the aggregate results in our latest survey with last year 's survey , we find that consumers , on average , are more optimistic now . In Brazil , the balance of consumers expecting better rather than worse financial prospects over the next six months has increased from 53 percent in 2011 to 63 percent in 2012 , which is the highest reading for three years . In China , the same statistic has picked up from 31 percent to 39 percent in 2012 . Indonesia has continued to see strong positive momentum in consumer confidence : a net 40 percent now expect better financial conditions in the months ahead . The mood has continued to deteriorate in India and Russia . Only 28 percent of our Indian sample expect some improvement in financial conditions in the next six months compared with 36 percent in 2011 and 40 percent in 2010 . Last year , we found that the momentum in consumer optimism was closely aligned with the weight of food in the consumption basket as food prices had risen to relatively high levels . This year , some respite in ( trailing ) food inflation has meant less drag on consumer sentiment and has left economic growth and wage expectations as the main determinants of the outlook . Our survey data show that nominal wage expectations are strongest in Brazil , closely followed by Indonesia ( which showed a significant improvement over the previous year ) and then Saudi Arabia . Wage expectations remain relatively depressed in Turkey , Russia and South Africa . The South African data is interesting : despite a substantial increase in nominal wages on the back of the recent labor unrest , a considerable percentage of the lower income groups expect a significant decline in household income possibly in response to rising unemployment levels ( at least within the formal sectors ) that now look inevitable given rising labor cost pressures driven by tough wage negotiations and strong growth in minimum wages . The other common feature that can be observed from our survey data is the age composition of the income brackets . The key takeaway is that , in many markets , the youngest end of the working-age population has achieved the highest income levels . China is a case in point . The average 18-29 year olds in our most recent survey have achieved average monthly incomes of around 9100 Chinese renminbi , which is 7 percent above those of the 46-55 year olds and 15 percent above the 56-65 age group . This is a feature that was also common to Indonesia , Russia and Turkey . In Brazil and India , the difference in earnings between the age groups was relatively flat . In South Africa 's case , the youngest group within the working age population earned substantially more than the oldest age group , but , rather than reflecting high earnings at the young end , this appears to be a reflection of very poor earnings for the older age groups . Arguably , very high unemployment rates in South Africa ( 25.5 percent according to the latest data from STATS SA ) mean that the effective average working life is much shorter than the legal limit . Of course , we recognize that these results could be influenced by the sample of respondents to our survey rather than being a reflection of the wider consumer base . However , with the help of nationally available demographic statistics , we have endeavored to ensure that the sample polled was an appropriate representation of average income brackets , age groups and geographical location . The rationale for the greater affluence of the younger age groups comes down to three key factors : ( a ) education - our survey data also show that the younger age groups have relatively higher educational attainment ; ( b ) urban-rural migration - the younger age groups are much more willing and likely to have migrated toward the higher paid jobs in the urban centers ; and ( c ) technology has also played a role - many of the higher paid jobs have encompassed a greater degree of automation and/ or technological input , which has favored the younger age groups on average . There are important implications of the age distribution of income growth for consumer spending patterns . Generally , we find and expect that the younger age earners are much more likely to spend incremental income on technology and branded consumer goods and are less likely to focus on insurance policies or healthcare expenditure . Of course , over the long term , as these more affluent consumers mature , spending patterns are likely to shift more strongly toward the likes of healthcare .
revolutionary innovation was thoroughly praised in the press . For example , the Neue Zürcher Zeitung ( a Zurich daily newspaper ) provided motorists of the day with a practical instruction manual for the new facility : " At the entrance to the bank , approaching cars trigger a sensor on the ground , activating a light trail that directs the driver to the next available counter . " Anyone researching the history of drive-through banking soon traces its roots to the US . This is hardly surprising since the land of unlimited automotive opportunity also gave rise to a type of outdoor snack bar that allowed motorists to grab a quick bite to eat without ever leaving their set of wheels . But which came first - the drive-through bank or the drive-through restaurant ? It was in 1951 that Robert Oscar Peterson opened the world 's first drive-through restaurant at 6270 El Cajon Boulevard in San Diego , thus inventing the fast food industry . At least that 's the claim from fast food chain Jack in the Box , which was founded by Peterson . If that 's the case , then the concept of fast food lagged some 13 years behind " fast banking " . That 's because records show that the first drive-through bank opened in Dallas , Texas in 1938 . This new marketing channel came from the Hillcrest State Bank , an institution whose name has long been associated with the history of banking in the US . In Switzerland , the history of banking by car is much less convoluted . The idea got off to a good start : in just its first year of operation , the drive-through bank at Paradeplatz handled close to 20,000 clients . But the automobile , which had provided the impetus for launching a new line of business , was also responsible for triggering its downfall . In the seventies , downtown Zurich began to suffer more and more from the increase in traffic , and fewer and fewer bank clients were electing to make underground pit stops to fill up on cash . In 1983 SKA finally brought an end to the experiment , which had long been unprofitable . This could really have been the end of the chapter . But as this stormy technological development in the world of banking has revealed : once an idea has been introduced , it rarely disappears altogether - whether we 're talking about ATMs , making payment transactions by mail , or phone banking , not to mention the good old branches . For the very same reason , the drive-through bank has the potential to make a roaring comeback - in Switzerland , that is . For when it comes to the car-crazed Americans , drive-through banking has never waned in popularity since it was first introduced in Dallas 65 years ago . Whether Citibank , the Bank of America , or Bank One - they all continue to offer drive-through banking nationwide , be it normal ATMs right through to actual counters . In the meantime , drive-through banks are also beginning to establish themselves where the automobile has just celebrated its victory march : in the up and coming markets of Asia . Now , thanks to modern technology , none other than McDonald 's is poised to completely fuse the two concepts . Together with British Telecom , the hamburger giant has set up Wireless Fidelity Access Zones in some 500 of its restaurants in the UK in the past year . These zones allow customers to use their own notebooks or handhelds to establish wireless broadband access to the internet , thereby availing themselves of the full range of modern internet banking services . This move targets harried business people who prefer to look after everything at once from their mobile offices : listening to the radio , phoning , writing e-mails , making appointments , checking share prices , trading securities - all the while munching on a Quarter Pounder , of course . This sets the stage for development of the next innovation : the ketchup-resistant notebook .
by deterioration or waste . The term " wastage " encompasses both food loss and food waste . Food Waste : This refers to all foodstuffs appropriate for human consumption but are nevertheless discarded . Food Loss : This refers to a decrease in mass or quality of foodstuffs which were originally intended for human consumption . In industrialized countries and emerging economies , it is consumers who are largely responsible for wasted foodstuffs . The lack of coordination between the different players in the supply chain also often means that more food is produced than can ultimately be sold . Food waste includes misshapen fruits which are regarded as substandard , according to current quality criteria , as well as products that have passed their sell-by date and left-overs that are thrown away . Increased awareness among consumers could reduce the amount of food being rejected and discarded at the end of the supply chain . Now for the first time , a recently published In developing countries , logistical , technical , and financial limitations lead to serious losses during production and transportation of foodstuffs . This is alarming given the fact that global production needs to be increased by 60 percent by 2050 , in order to provide for a growing world population with changing diets . Both the public and private sector need to invest in infrastructure , transport and packaging industries of developing countries in order to increase production and at the same time prevent the loss of foodstuffs . More efficient food production reduces costs for consumers and thus contributes to improved access for disadvantaged groups of people . Speed is a fundamental factor in the fight against production loss . The faster the foodstuffs move along the supply chain , the lower the probability that they will go bad . One simple way of accelerating this process is to set up processing plants closer to production facilities . But what sounds logical remains a huge challenge for many developing countries and one that cannot be overcome without support from both the private and public sectors . What seems unthinkable in many developing countries occurs on a daily basis in high income countries : Foodstuffs intended for sale or consumption are thrown away . In Europe and North America , an average of 95 to 115 kilos of foodstuffs per head is thrown away annually . In sub-Saharan countries the average is only between 6 and 11 kilos . Poor communication and cooperation between producers lead to foodstuffs having to be discarded when production exceeds demand . High quality standards concerning the appearance of vegetables and fruit also mean that many foodstuffs are rejected and are not put on sale . However , there has recently been a rethink in this respect and supermarket chains have increasingly begun to display three-legged carrots or bent cucumbers on their shelves . Explaining the significance of sell-by and expiry dates can also help to encourage consumers to behave responsibly . According to Peter Hess , quality coordinator at DSR , one of two providers of Credit Suisse staff restaurants , the most efficient way to reduce food waste would be " if guests became more tolerant regarding the offer at the end of the service . If the salad bar does n't have to look filled until the end of service , less will have to be disposed for food safety reasons at the end of the day . " Even if the reduction in food waste does not solve all the problems of the global supply shortage , it is nonetheless one way in which each and every individual can make an effective contribution . During the week of June 5 , 2013 ( World Environment Day ) , as part of the United Nations Environment Program 's Think.Eat.Save campaign , Credit Suisse 's Sustainability Network in Switzerland launched an information campaign in all staff restaurants in Switzerland on the subject of food waste . Food waste is measured on a regular basis in Credit Suisse staff restaurants , and in order to reduce food waste measures determined on an annual basis are implemented . " Precise planning by the chef is as essential as continuous fresh production and the service personnel 's trained eye for the guest , " says Alexander Poelman , Key Account Manager at SV Group . With these measures , the food waste could be reduced by about 30g per plate since 2006 . The Sustainability Network enables employees to organize internal events and activities and thus to benefit from the creation of cross-divisional and cross-regional networks . The network 's job is to promote awareness about questions of sustainability , and about the bank 's activities on these issues , with the aim of supporting innovations in this area .
threshold since 2007 . Looking in more detail at the global pattern , the story this year is a tale of two countries . The United States posted a fifth successive year of rises in personal wealth . Fuelled by a recovery in house prices and a bull equity market which drove the Dow Jones to new highs , the United States added 8.1 trillion US dollars to the global wealth stock , increasing wealth ownership by 12.7 percent to 72.1 trillion US dollars . This is 20 percent more than the pre-crisis high in 2006 and 54 percent above the recent low in 2008 . Aggressive monetary policy by the Bank of Japan ( BOJ ) spurred an even greater rise in equity prices - up 52 percent in the year to mid-2013 . But equities in Japan are very low by international standards , accounting for less than 10 percent of household financial wealth , and the same aggressive BOJ policies drove the yen-USD exchange rate down by 22 percent . As a consequence , total household wealth in Japan has fallen by 5.8 trillion US dollars this year , equivalent to 20 percent of Japanese net worth . Japan suffered very little during the global financial crisis - in fact personal wealth grew by 21 percent between 2007 and 2008 . However , in marked contrast to recent performance by the United States , total wealth is now just 1 percent above the 2008 level . In most other parts of the world , the economic environment has been generally favorable to wealth acquisition . The extent to which the United States and Japan dominate the world picture this year is illustrated by the figure , which shows the countries with the largest total wealth gains and losses . China ( 1.4 trillion US dollars ) , Germany ( 1.2 trillion US dollars ) and France ( 1.1 trillion US dollars ) are the only other countries where the change in wealth exceeded 1 trillion US dollars . Total wealth changed in a further eight countries by more than 200 billion US dollars ( all gains ) : Italy , the United Kingdom , Spain , Mexico , Sweden , India , Korea and Canada . The equity price increase and the slightly favorable euro-dollar movement enabled the Eurozone countries to recover more than half of the very large wealth loss experienced 12 months earlier . The United Kingdom , India and Switzerland also managed to recover a significant portion of recent losses . As already noted , global household wealth equates to 51,600 US dollars per adult , a new all-time high for average net worth . This average global value masks considerable variation across countries and regions , as is evident in the figure . The richest nations , with wealth per adult over 100,000 US dollars , are found in North America , Western Europe , and among the rich Asia-Pacific and Middle Eastern countries . They are headed by Switzerland , which in 2011 became the first country in which average wealth exceeded 500,000 US dollars . It dropped below this mark in 2012 , but this year equity price rises resulted in a new peak value of 513,000 US dollars per adult . Australia ( 403,000 US dollars ) , Norway ( 380,000 US dollars ) and Luxembourg ( 315,000 US dollars ) all experienced an increase in wealth per adult and retain their respective second , third and fourth places from 2012 . The United States , Sweden , France , Singapore , Belgium and Denmark are close behind , with average wealth per adult in the 250,000 to 300,000 US dollar range . A year ago , Japan moved up to fourth place in the table , but it has now been demoted and no longer ranks among the top ten countries . To determine how global wealth is distributed across households and individuals - rather than regions or countries - we combine our data on the level of household wealth across countries with information on the pattern of wealth distribution within countries . Our estimates for mid-2013 indicate that once debts have been subtracted , an adult requires just 4,000 US dollars in assets to be in the wealthiest half of world citizens . However , a person needs at least 75,000 US dollars to be a member of the top 10 percent of global wealth holders , and 753,000 US dollars to belong to the top 1 percent . Taken together , the bottom half of the global population own less than 1 percent of total wealth . In sharp contrast , the richest 10 percent hold 86 percent of the world 's wealth , and the top 1 percent alone account for 46 percent of global assets . Further information on the pattern of total wealth ownership across regions and countries during the year to mid-2013 can be found in the full publication : Credit Suisse Global Wealth Report 2013 .
Irish economy has been suffering since the collapse of a property bubble in 2008 led to a severe banking crisis . But there have been signs this year that capital markets and investors are gaining confidence in the Emerald Isle . The government sold 5 billion euros of 10-year of new benchmark bonds for the first time in three years earlier this month and sold the state-owned insurance company Irish Life to a Canadian firm in February . The same month , the government restructured 25 billion euros of short-term promissory notes issued during the crisis . Ireland needs to create jobs to replace those lost in construction after the real estate market collapsed , Credit Suisse analyst Steven Bryce wrote in a recent note entitled " The Bonds are Back in Town . " But unlike some other European countries , Ireland does not have a competitiveness problem . In fact , Ireland 's export prices fell relative to the rest of the Eurozone even through the boom years of the mid-2000s , Bryce noted . Moody 's , one of three major ratings agencies , recently praised the country 's competitive exports when it affirmed Ireland 's credit rating . But the rating Moody 's affirmed was still just below investment grade with a negative outlook . The agency said " Ireland 's vulnerability to wider euro-area stresses has been reaffirmed by euro area policymakers ' handling of the Cyprus crisis . " It also cited continuing weaknesses in the country 's banking sector . Credit Suisse economists and analysts have said that , if there were to be any " Cyprus contagion , " it would most likely spread through European banks experiencing a rise in their borrowing costs . Bank funding costs have already risen sharply in countries with large banking sectors relative to the size of their economies - both in peripheral countries such as Italy and Spain and in core countries such as France and the Netherlands , Hill 's note pointed out . As for Ireland , its banking sector remains troubled . But there is reason to believe markets may not get overly twitchy about it just yet . " Ireland is already under a bailout program , and has seen substantial declines in the scale of deposits since the start of the financial crisis , " Bryce wrote . " To some extent , this means that the cost-benefit analysis of repeating ( a bail-in ) in Ireland would probably produce a markedly different outcome than in Cyprus . " As a percentage of GDP , the portion of Ireland 's banking sector insured by the government has shrunk by 20 percent since the crisis began in 2008 , but is still twice the size of the economy . A large number of homeowners have fallen behind on mortgage payments , and 15 percent of Irish mortgages , by value , are in arrears . However , Bryce also noted that post-crisis Irish banks are among the best capitalized in Europe , and the Irish central bank is pushing private banks to help struggling homeowners by extending the length of their loans , thus lowering the monthly bill , or allowing interest-only payments for a time . Perhaps the most important threat to Ireland , then , is in the post-Cyprus slowdown expected in Europe . " There 's a clear risk that despite Cyprus ' small share of GDP , the precedents raised by the nature of its bailout and the shock to confidence because of how it was implemented means that the prospect for growth in the euro area once again deteriorates , " Hill wrote in a recent note entitled " European Economics : After Cyprus . " Growth and stability , Credit Suisse analysts have said , are precisely what Ireland needs most , particularly in the EU , which absorbs about 60 percent of Ireland 's exports . Ireland 's large budget gap , expected to be 7.5 percent this year , is a serious concern as well , Credit Suisse analysts say . The deficit is one of the worst in the EU and austerity measures are probably necessary for at least the next three years to bring it down . But at the same time , the economy likely needs to grow by 2 percent a year to keep debt levels sustainable , Credit Suisse has said . " Ireland is incredibly vulnerable to shocks in the near term , " Bryce wrote in his research note . " Any shocks to growth or events that delay fiscal consolidation could seriously threaten the Irish recovery . " So , while Ireland may have more reasons than its fellow periphery nations to be optimistic , the country will likely join its counterparts in the region in watching closely for signs of Cyprus contagion .
Accra , Istanbul and Indore . TransMilenio is a low-cost , high-impact system . The first phase ( 40 km ) was completed in just three years ( 1998 - 2000 ) . It captured international attention due to its high capacity - more than 40,000 passengers per hour , per direction - and an innovative public-private partnership model . The city builds the infrastructure , and local entrepreneurs ( currently seven groups with nearly 2,000 buses ) own and operate the fleet - profitably and without subsidies . Today the BRT is 106 km long and carries more than two million passengers a day . Its success helped mainstream the concept worldwide . Our database indicates that 150 cities have BRT and bus corridors ; 115 of these have been created since 2000 . Experience around the globe shows the great potential of BRT , but planning , financing and organizational difficulties should not be papered over . The important thing is not to rush into implementation until all the planning has been thought through . Also , every city is unique , so copy/ paste does n't work . Most of the obstacles are institutional rather than technical . Such projects are inherently complex as they involve aligning a baffling array of interests . Strong political leadership and well-crafted communications are essential . One of the big advantages of BRT systems is that they can frequently be realized within an elected leader 's term of office . Traditionally , urban transport planning has been all about moving cars , not necessarily people . As a result , most cities in the world have focused on expanding road networks . The result has been appalling . Clearly , creating more roads does not solve congestion ; it brings more cars to the streets . It 's like trying to fight obesity by expanding the size of our pants ! Several cities - Seoul , San Francisco , Toronto , Vancouver - have actually begun removing urban highways and replacing them with public-transport infrastructure . We urgently need to reallocate funding from urban parking and highways to sustainable transport . We support sustainable mobility and urban development initiatives in Mexico , Brazil , Peru , Turkey , India and China . We also work with researchers from Chile , USA , Portugal and Australia via the ALC-BRT Centre of Excellence and support 30 Latin American transit agencies in their quest for quality and integration . On-sit e meetings are particularly important when it comes to convincing decision makers . The construction of a 150 km BRT network in Rio de Janeiro in preparation for the FIFA World Cup and 2016 Summer Olympics , and the expansion of Metrobús in Mexico City from 95 to 200 km are two notable examples . The introduction of BRT in Mumbai and Bangalore may be among the most challenging , and capacity enhancements in the saturated corridors of Bogotá and Istanbul will certainly be major undertakings . We expect around 30 cities to introduce BRT in the next five years , primarily in Asia - but also , in the near future , Africa . We have observed a cultural shift in Europe and , increasingly , the USA . People used to aspire to live in a house in the suburbs and commute . Today , more and more people want to live in the city itself - in denser , mixed-use areas . We do n't know how this trend will evolve in the developing world , but mass transit planning provides an excellent opportunity to influence the future shape of cities . Places such as Copenhagen , Curitiba and Singapore show how successful strategies that dovetail land use and transport planning can be . We must adapt these models to fit the needs of rapidly emerging economies . This needs to happen fast before car-centric urban sprawl takes root . Interestingly , the Chinese cities of Wuhan and Hangzhou have set up the two largest bike-sharing programs in the world ( 90,000 and 60,000 bicycles , respectively ) . Hangzhou plans to expand to 175,000 bikes by 2020 . It 's a revolution on two wheels ! China now also leads the world in metro systems , with Beijing and Shanghai already surpassing London as the longest networks . Transit ridership is growing rapidly in the USA . More people are choosing urban lifestyles . In the major urban centers a culture of membership rather than ownership is emerging thanks to social networks and car-sharing programs . In Latin America , on the other hand , we see the opposite trend : a growing middle class is now able to own more cars and motorcycles , and public transport usage is declining in most cities . The key in Latin America is to improve service and safety , which may require subsidies , and to introduce congestion charging and parking management schemes . Some of the key innovations are in vehicle technology . Trains are becoming lighter and more efficient ; buses are catching up with cleaner propulsion technologies such as natural gas and hybrid electric . The overarching goal must be to create multimodal , integrated public-transport networks with " last mile " connectivity to onward transit services as well as car and bike sharing . Mobile user interfaces , which are improving all the time as smartphone penetration rises , play an increasingly important role here . Smart ticketing systems , including electronic purses , are likewise becoming available on mobile devices . I see these technologies being further integrated and refined rather than some fame-changing innovation turning everything on its head . Crossing the Bosporus Strait and jumping on and off the fast and frequent Istanbul Metrobüs ; gliding through The Strip in Las Vegas on a shiny golden bus-cum-tram ; and rattling through hectic and historic Mexico City in a hybrid bus . My most surreal experience was sharing a train carriage with 700-plus people in Mumbai , which has the world 's highest throughput suburban rail system .
" The credit line is the most appropriate instrument to provide to the country because ( Portugal ) has one foot in the market ( having already refinanced some bonds ) , and the goal with the credit line is to support a full return to the market , " Credit Suisse analyst Axel Lang explained . " It is an instrument that is less costly for the core countries to provide because it 's a precautionary credit line that may or may not be used by Portugal , " said Lang , who said a final decision on the matter is not likely until after the German elections in September . Portugal is expected to face an estimated 12 billion euro ( about 15.8 billion US dollar ) funding gap in 2014 , when its 78 billion euro bailout ends and as it struggles to pull itself out of a brutal recession . The country 's gross domestic product ( GDP ) contracted by 1.8 percent in the last quarter of 2012 , and Credit Suisse expects the economy to shrink by 3 percent in 2013 . Unemployment remained at 17.5 percent for the third straight month in March , according to Eurostat . " Domestic demand is really under strong pressure , " Lang said . " At the moment , they rely on external trade , and the export sector is still pretty small for the size of the country … One of the problems is that its main trading partner is Spain , which is also not in great shape . " European officials have already lowered Portugal 's deficit target for this year from 6 percent of GDP to 5.5 percent . The decision reflects a softening attitude toward deficits that favors a greater focus on implementing structural reforms , which Portugal has done fairly well , Lang said . The country introduced labor market reforms last year , for example , to make it easier for employers to hire and fire workers . The burden of austerity is still a heavy one , however , and it could get worse . Portugal 's Constitutional Court recently rejected 1.3 billion euros in scheduled budget cuts for this year . While Lang believes the government will have a fairly easy time filling in the gaps this year , the following years may be more difficult . The government recently pledged cuts of 2.8 billion euros in 2014 , followed by 1.9 billion euros more over the following two years . " This will have to be done in a context of weak economic background , continued rising unemployment , social discontent and ultimately , political risks , " Lang wrote in his research note . Portugal 's finance minister has already acknowledged that spending will affect hospitals , schools and other areas . In response to the growing frustrations about belt-tightening , Portugal 's leaders have been trying harder to foster growth . Recently , officials announced broad measures to cut corporate taxes and provide incentives for foreign companies to set up shop in Portugal . " They want to have a better environment for firms to operate in because it 's a very small economy , " Lang said . " They basically want to replicate the Irish model , " in which a few large companies establishing themselves in Portugal could change the employment outlook and make the country seem like a viable place to do business . Ultimately , whether Portugal gets a credit line from Europe or not , reversing its status over the past decade as one of the slowest-growing Eurozone economies , is key to the country 's long-term success - and it will not happen overnight .
composers wrote in this new and perhaps more complex way is that they wanted to express their emotions and not just calculation . The function of the music and its theoretical background is to simply communicate these complex feelings , which are feelings and emotions that we all have and share . The first piece is by Charles Ives ( Sonata No 2 for Piano , Concord , Mass . , 1840 - 60 ) , which has not been played much in concerts , as it is practically unplayable ! He is one of the first composers who experimented with things such as two or three rhythms at the same time , using different tonalities simultaneously , mixing complex tonal languages with very simple ones . He uses a lot of influences from other genres , ranging from pop music from his own time to Beethoven 's fifth symphony and he integrates it all into one language . Ralph van Raat The second work is from John Cage ( Sonatas and Interludes for prepared piano ) and it is a landmark work in 20th century repertoire . In this work he tries to bring together the Eastern and Western world , and he does this with a very special method . He prepared the piano with adding metal objects into the strings of the piano to alter the sounds , which gives a very eastern percussion like sound . He also used elements and the philosophy of Indian music and then at other times he can use very common Western sounds and tonality . In every piece of that cycle there is one emotion that is pivotal to the piece and each emotion is derived from the nine permanent emotions in ancient Indian culture , such as anger , fear , love , jealousy . In every piece he tried to translate one of those emotions into the music and in fact also uses silence as part of his ensemble . Silence is a typical element in a lot of non-Western music , in particular the role of silence and meditation . So in general this music is very quiet and can evoke a lot of emotions . When I look at the other artists in the series it is very inspiring to be in such company ! They are all very good musicians and I am really happy and honored to be part of the series . What I am excited about the most though is that I am performing contemporary 20th century music , which is not a typical repertoire that allows artists to be involved in this kind of international series . So I am really happy that this repertoire has been given a platform to bring it to new audiences . I have a very hectic program ! A few to mention is the forthcoming tour with Tan Dun 's The Banquet ( Piano Concerto ) conducted by Tan Dun himself , a performance of George Gershwin 's Concerto in F with the Cairo Philharmonic , performances and CD recordings of Tauno Marttinen 's Piano Concerto with the Finnish Turku Symphony Orchestra and a recital performance at the Bach Festival of Thüringen in Germany to name just a few . Credit Suisse Emerging Artists Series The Hong Kong Arts Festival showcases the very best in global artistic talent set against the dynamic background of this buzzing city . The festival is the pinnacle of Hong Kong 's performing arts events and showcases Asia 's top talents alongside leading artists from around the world . Running annually from February to March it attracts some 200,000 visitors each year who are drawn by the striking number and stature of the artists appearing on the festival 's program . It features an eclectic array of music , theater , dance , popular entertainment , film and exhibition programs . Since its launch in the early 1970 's the festival has attracted some of the world 's preeminent musicians and performers , including flautist James Galway , tenor José Carreras , the People 's Art Theatre of Beijing , Chinese-American cellist Yo-Yo Ma , choreographer Mikhail Baryshnikov , Philip Glass , the Royal Shakespeare Company , the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra , the Mariinsky Theatre and the famed Bolshoi Theatre . Since 2009 , Credit Suisse has partnered with the Hong Kong Arts Festival on the Credit Suisse Emerging Artists Series . This comprises performances by some of the most impressive young and rising new creative talent from varying art forms . The series provides a platform for these artists who are commencing international careers , offering them a prestigious opportunity to showcase their inspiration , creativity and talent . The 2013 series includes classic and contemporary music performed by string quartet Quatuor Ebène , clarinettist Martin Fröst and pianist Ralph van Raat . © photo : Annelies van der Vegt Welcome to Viva Open a Viva Banking Package now and get a Ticketcorner Voucher worth CHF 50 .
will improve more rapidly than expected next year ? I think the United States will recover a good deal more swiftly than many people imagine . They have their problems , they have a huge debt position , but the trajectory of bringing debt down is very attractive now . They 're becoming more and more self-sufficient in energy , which will add to internal confidence , and improved spirits . So , I suspect that the United States will grow quite rapidly . Furthermore , I think the United Kingdom might outperform people 's current expectations . Traditionally , they have swung further and faster into recession , or further and faster into growth , than most forecasts have indicated . I think that may happen again . China , at a growth rate of 7.5 percent , will still be very significant . So , I think some countries will grow faster than anticipated . However , we 're not looking at a boom scenario . We 're looking at a growing recovery . And I think growing steadily may be healthier in the medium term , than a very rapid and sharp return , artificially stimulated . I think that is going to take some years . With any fruits of growth , there 's partly dealing with the debt problem , which is expensive and diminishes the money available for growth , and there 's partly the expense of growth-related policies . The recent financial crisis , and the recession that followed it , has been almost unprecedented in scope . We have n't had anything quite like this to deal with for a very , very long time . And of course , policy has been cautious . It 's going to be quite some time before we return to the healthy state of the world economy , to which we are now heading . There are always uncertainties in the world . Another unexpected and large banking collapse , for example , would clearly have a very significant effect . If a problem arises and there 's a dash to lower the exchange rates of currencies among many countries , that could conceivably create a currency problem . There 's also always the familiar problem of whether there will be trouble in one part of the world or another - most obviously , in the Middle East . That could create problems . But , there 's nothing one can foresee now that looks substantial , or as though it could derail what is a steady recovery . I think it is healthy that China are looking at a more sustainable growth pattern at the present time and for the future . Also , for a raft of different reasons , China have decided to expand domestic demand within the country , with wage increases averaging about 13 percent a year , presumably for the next few years . That will create both a bigger internal market within China , and a much bigger market for the rest of the world to aim at . I think that is a very benevolent development for the world economy . In terms of military matters , yes , I think we are in a safer place . It 's fashionable these days to be very gloomy . You can be very wise if you 're gloomy . But some very optimistic things are emerging . One of them is , as the global economy intertwines , as we become more and more dependent upon one another , as America , China , and the European Union begin to have increasingly common interests in what happens around the world , the chance of conflict is much less than it was . The relationship , for example , between the two biggest powers , America and China , is infinitely better today than was the relationship between the two dominant powers , America and the Soviet Union , 30 years ago . We may have small wars , we have terrorism , we may have economic problems . We will have uncertainties . But we do n't have that risk that existed for so long , of a serious intercontinental conflict . That , I think , is becoming less likely every single year . And I think that is a very attractive development side effect of the way the world economy has made us more dependent upon one another .
and the Lac Léman ( Lake Geneva ) region . Around 140,000 to 160,000 vehicles pass through the Wallisellen interchange , where the A1 and A4 motorways come together , every day . At the 12th Lifefair Forum in October , where the topic was " Where is Swiss Transportation Policy Steering Us ? " ( see box ) , leading minds from the worlds of politics , transportation and economics came together to discuss public and private transportation in Switzerland . The debate centered on the national road system - not surprising in light of the upcoming vote on November 24 , in which the country will vote on whether to approve a change to the federal law on national roadway tolls . At issue is a proposed increase in the price of the motorway vignette , which allows the use of all Swiss motorways and expressways , from 40 francs to 100 francs . The hike is expected to bring in 300 million francs in additional revenue , which the federal government plans to invest in expanding the road network and financing the takeover of national roadways by the federal government . Parliament approved the bill in the spring of 2013 , but it was met with quick opposition , and a referendum committee gathered enough signatures to take the matter to a public vote . The topic is now the subject of hot debate . Leading those in favor of the bill is Federal Councilor Doris Leuthard . As head of the Federal Department of Environment , Transport , Energy and Communications ( DETEC ) , Leuthard gave an introductory presentation at the Lifefair Forum , in which she called the price increase necessary and reasonable given the sharp rise in roadway use and the proposed investments . According to Leuthard , the infrastructure is reaching its limits . More and more people commute , with ever-increasing distances between home and work . In fact , she emphasized , Switzerland 's excellent road network is a major reason the country is considered one of the world 's most competitive economies . " We must invest , and we must stop engaging in ideological warfare . " According to Leuthard , an annual 60-franc increase in the vignette price would help Switzerland guarantee a quality road system and fair financing of the national road network , as well as ensure that all the country 's regions benefit from the expansion . The National Council approved the bill with 102 votes to 87 ; it also passed the Council of States by 37 to 4 . Arguments against the proposal come from the left as well as the right sides of the political spectrum : both Bastien Girod , National Councilor for the Green Party , and Walter Frey , former National Councilor , Swiss People 's Party ( SVP ) Vice President and owner and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Emil Frey Group , are against raising the price of the vignette . Joining them on the Lifefair panel were Kathrin Amacker , Head of Communications & Public Affairs for the Swiss Federal Railways ; Hans-Jörg Bertschi , Board Chairman and CEO of Bertschi AG ; Ernst Stocker , Zurich Cantonal Councilor for the SVP and Director of Economic Affairs ; and Ulrich Walt , Head of Logistics at Holcim Europe . Frey sees the bill as an urgent necessity . " But financing is another issue altogether , " he adds . Eighty percent of public transportation takes place via roads , despite much heavier investments in the rail network in recent times . " Roads are on the defensive , " says Frey . With drivers already covering over 100 percent of the cost of the road network , he feels the bump in price is likely to leave a sour taste in their mouth . Girod counters that the 100 percent cost coverage cited by Frey does n't include environmental and other external costs not incurred by drivers . He is against the vignette price increase for other reasons . For him , mobility pricing , in which fees are collected for actual road usage , is a better solution . " It would give us better cost transparency . " Business owner Hans-Jörg Bertschi does n't support this model , but he did criticize the more expensive vignette as a " tax on leaving your car at home . " The Zurich Cantonal Council is in favor of the bill . Its representative at the Forum , Director of Economic Affairs Ernst Stocker , pointed to the enormous increase in traffic in and around the city of Zurich . " A large infrastructure project takes 20 to 30 years from planning to implementation . That 's why we need to say yes today , " he stressed . Holcim logistics manager Ulrich Walt believes that , while the annual 60-franc increase is reasonable , the need is relative . " Compared to many other countries , we 're doing quite well in this area , and our traffic jams are a lot less dramatic , " says Walt . The debate over the price of the motorway vignette raises another important basic question : do we really need as much transportation as we have today ? Are we on the road too much ? Girod takes a critical stance with regard to transportation in today 's world . " We do n't need more asphalt , we need greater efficiency . " According to Girod , for most commuters , driving to work every day is a burden rather than a joy ; studies show that people actually overestimate the positive effects of comfort at home while they underestimate the value of a shorter commute . Frey counters the scenario of deliberately reducing transportation options by stressing the importance of economic growth , which he feels would not be possible if we cut back on transportation . " People , not roads , create traffic . " As Kathrin Amacker adds , it 's a matter of Swiss identity as well . " Ordinary Swiss people have the benefit of being able to travel around the country or commute to work , even if they do n't have a lot of money , " she states . According to Amacker , raising taxes is n't simple , either , as it puts an unfair burden on the less wealthy section of the population , who might need to take a job in another city in order to survive , thus impacting the mobility of the job market . When Doris Leuthard came forward after the panel discussion to give her final remarks to the audience , she welcomed the lively debate , which had made it clear just how complex the topic of transportation policy and mobility is in Switzerland , going far beyond the price of the motorway vignette and touching on basic issues regarding environmental and economic policy and even national identity . " Multimodal mobility " is in demand , stressed the Federal Councilor . " We need investments in railways and roads . "
and the inheritance tax are putting our system to the test ; this worries me . We have to raise general awareness of Switzerland 's success . Primarily on a liberal labor market . 82 percent of the population between 15 and 64 years of age - more than in any other country - is integrated into working life . In addition , we work more than anyone else in Europe : 41.9 hours per week . The second factor is our very well-trained employees at every level . Our dual educational system is certainly the key to this . Third is our openness towards the rest of the world , where we earn one out of every two francs . And fourth , 20 percent of the gross domestic product comes from industry , and we remain one of the world 's most industrialized countries . This provides stability and is part of the reason we came through the financial crisis so well . As our population continues to age , and with predicted immigration of about 40,000 people per year , we will have a shortage of about 400,000 workers in 2030 . This major gap between the population size and economic performance is the price we pay for our success . Whatever internal efforts we might make , Switzerland will always be dependent on immigration . The initiative against mass immigration and the Ecopop group 's initiative , in contrast , boil down to planned-economy quota-setting and do n't work in practice . In addition , the immigration initiatives threaten the bilateral path that helped Switzerland weather the crisis successfully . The current debate reminds me of the fear of domination by foreign influences in the early 1970s . Some very similar arguments are being used to place the blame for a large share of our problems on the free movement of persons . Immigrants come to Switzerland for various reasons . For example , 7,000 of the 73,000 people who immigrated last year came to our country through marriage . That has absolutely nothing to do with the free movement of persons . But we do need to take certain problems seriously , such as cultural differences with foreign bosses . I think it 's important for business to throw light on this and do everything possible to keep immigration as low as possible . We should more fully utilize the untapped potential for skilled workers who are already in Switzerland . The culture of continuing to work as an older person is completely underdeveloped . In addition , women constitute a large group of potential workers whose productivity can still increase . We have to rethink how things are done - and that takes time . Wage discrimination has lessened significantly in recent years . This problem has been solved with new hires . As for employment relationships that have evolved over time , we have to continue to follow the path we have chosen . Tools such as the pay parity dialogue have been created to help enterprises recognize whether they are providing equal pay for equal work . The statistics indicate otherwise . According to the Gini coefficient ( a statistical measure representing income inequality ) wages are distributed more equally in Switzerland than anywhere else . And the phenomenon of the working poor is on the decline here . In contrast , our cost of living and our demands are increasing . I know families who spend more money on communication than on food . Economic considerations mean that we should focus less on increasing wages and more on how we can lower living costs in our country . There is still work to be done in this regard . Switzerland 's domestic economy is significantly less productive than its export economy . The dual educational system is without doubt a major success , but social pressure threatens to water it down to a high-school type of education . We need reforms in primary school as well . Teaching of the STEM disciplines ( science , technology , engineering and math ) must be emphasized more . After all , Switzerland reached its current level of prosperity thanks in large part to engineering . It was not business people who developed new medicines , machines and time­pieces , but talented people from technical professions . I think that the financial center will continue to change . The " clean money strategy " is the strategy of the future , and it will become necessary to win over customers through performance and quality . Along with increasing regulation , this will lead to cost pressure , and additional job cuts in the financial services sector will be necessary . But I 'm certain that the path we are on is the right one , and it 's promising . Switzerland 's banks are competitive and do not have to hide from anyone . Those whose key markets benefit from megatrends such as healthcare , energy , urbanization , water and aging ; that is , pharmaceutical , life science , engineering , and technology companies . The world 's growing prosperity gives the luxury goods and finance industries a push . Switzerland is very well positioned for the future . We are in excellent shape compared to other countries . But we tend to forget that .
have a slightly dampening effect on demand for residential property . However , this will not be enough to snuff out price rises entirely . We expect price rises to ease only slightly to 3-5 percent this year - as a result the risk of a market correction is increasing . However , apart from an unexpected recession , a sharp rise in interest rates is the only thing likely to halt price growth . As long as no substantial rise in interest rates threatens to undermine the market , there are currently three factors preventing it from entering the final stage of overheating . First , speculative transactions remain relatively limited . Second , lending has been curbed by many institutions against the backdrop of tighter monitoring and growing risks . Third , there is as yet no oversupply on the residential property market . Structural weaknesses in the construction sector are making it impossible to produce more apartments , even though the supply pipeline is full . The scarcity of residential space in central locations will therefore remain an issue in 2013 . Increasing vacancy rates tend to become noticeable in peripheral and rural regions first . The overall vacancy rate in Switzerland will once again be below the long-term average of 1 percent this year , albeit only slightly . A substantial rise in interest rates would lead high property prices to be reflected in rising running costs for homeowners : immediately in the case of new buyers and with a slight delay on average for existing owners . This would choke demand and push up vacancy rates . However , the trend in commercial property is very different . Although prices have risen significantly here too , there is little sign of overheating of demand as there is for owner-occupied residential property . On the contrary , the office market is seeing rising vacancy rates . Office developments financed with low interest rates are attracting large companies to cheaper locations ( but still with good transport links ) outside town centers . Many companies take advantage of such out-of-town moves to bring together a number of different locations efficiently while also saving costs . The vacancies which this development leaves behind in the town centers can mostly be filled again over time , but usually only after landlords have made pricing concessions . The growing trend toward new ways of working is accentuating this situation . " Desk sharing , " for example , gives companies much greater flexibility in managing their space requirements . On average it allows a space saving of 10-20 percent . The benefits of desk sharing are so appealing that more and more companies are trying out similar new approaches , and this is having an appreciable impact on overall demand for office space across the economy . Combined with the full supply pipeline , the rise in the supply figures toward the end of 2012 could be a harbinger of a possible future oversupply and rising vacancy rates on the office property market . This oversupply will be alleviated by the ongoing tertiarization process within industry . The increasing orientation of industrial companies toward services is leading to rising demand for office space .
. In addition , the European Parliament recently asked the Commission to comment by the end of 2006 on the ability of the EU to accept new members , including the EU 's geographical limits . The EU 's ability to act is to be improved by a reform of its institutions . New instruments of this type would have been provided for in the EU Constitutional Treaty , but the future of this document is more than uncertain . It is indisputable that as the Union increases in size , it will become harder for it to take decisions in the foreign policy arena in particular . This makes it all the more important for the EU to provide itself with the right decision-making mechanisms . This process is currently under way . There is an ambivalent attitude toward the EU . When the EU is strong , it is perceived as a threat by some of our fellow citizens . I consider this view to be incorrect , since we should not forget that the EU consists exclusively of democracies and market economies and that its decisions do not fundamentally conflict with our system of values . As a partner in a bilateral relationship , we need the EU to be able to act . Only then will we be able to find solutions to our problems and concerns within a reasonable period . Switzerland 's solidarity in helping to reduce the social and economic inequalities in the enlarged EU is proof of the Swiss Federal Council 's awareness of the great importance of the most recent enlargement of the EU for the security and prosperity of Europe . We want to make our contribution to the successful integration of these new , growing markets of eastern Europe , since this will also be to Switzerland 's benefit . Anyone who works closely with the EU has a basic interest in the EU being able to take decisions as a party to agreements and as a negotiating partner . It will certainly not be possible to decide on this matter before approval of the EU budget for the period 2014 - 2020 , which means that we will have to wait at least ten years for a decision . The criteria we have discussed are already sufficiently clear . High legal standards are set . The further course of these negotiations and their final outcome are still open and I would therefore not like to speculate about what this would mean for the relationship with Switzerland . With no fewer than 18 important treaties , our relationship is now closer than ever before . The Free Trade Treaty and Bilateral Agreements I and II enable us to protect our interests in our relationship with our politically and economically most important partner . This " bilateral path " has also been approved by the people of Switzerland on a number of occasions and confirmed in various referenda . That is a good starting point . I do not deny , however , that for the bilateral path to be successful , Switzerland will also need to accept its share of responsibility in Europe : I am referring here to a possible referendum on the Swiss contribution to the enlarged EU . If there is such a referendum , it is to be hoped that this bilateral path with all its consequences will once again be accepted by the people . This is one of the possible ways of increasing the stability of the bilateral path . Experts are looking into whether this could produce a gain for both sides - time will tell . We have supported the former communist countries of eastern Europe in their efforts to introduce reforms and become democracies and social market economies since the early nineties . Switzerland has also been supporting the next accession countries , Romania and Bulgaria , for a long time now as part of our aid to eastern Europe . The economic treaties we have concluded with these countries will be replaced by our bilateral treaties with the EU as soon as they become EU member states . For example , the free trade treaties that we have concluded with these states will be replaced by the Switzerland-EU Free Trade Treaty on the accession date .
percent of the time . What is the probability that the cab involved in the accident was blue ? A ) Less than 50 percent B ) More than 50 percent C ) It is impossible to say Question 2 You have two jars in front of you . Jar A contains 50 white balls and 50 black balls . Jar B also contains 100 black and white balls , but you do not know how many of each . You are asked to reach in and take out a ball . If it is black , you will win 100 Swiss francs . Which jar do you choose ? A ) Jar A B ) Jar B C ) It makes no difference Question 3 A - You are exposed to pathogen X , which can cause a disease that leads to a quick and painless death within one week . The likelihood that you will contract this disease is exactly 0.1 percent . There is no cure . However , there is a vaccine that is certain to prevent you from developing the disease . Unfortunately , there is a limited supply of this vaccine , so it is sold to the highest bidder . How much would you be willing to pay to be vaccinated ? A ) 100 Swiss francs B ) 1,000 Swiss francs C ) 10,000 Swiss francs B - A professor at a university hospital is conducting research on pathogen X , which can cause a disease that leads to a quick and painless death within one week . The likelihood of contracting this disease is exactly 0.1 percent . There is no vaccine against it . Thus the likelihood that someone participating in this experiment will die is exactly 0.1 percent . The 20 people asking for the lowest amount of compensation are allowed to participate in the experiment . What is the minimum amount of compensation you would accept to take part in the experiment ? A ) 100 Swiss francs B ) 1,000 Swiss francs C ) 10,000 Swiss francs Question 4 Eight out of 1,000 people have cancer . Of these eight people with cancer , seven will test positive for cancer . Of the 992 people who do not have cancer , 70 will test positive . How many people who test positive actually have cancer ? A ) 7 out of 77 people B ) 7 out of 1,000 people C ) 9 percent Question 5 A - An oil tanker has collided with a reef , spilling a large quantity of petroleum into the ocean . As a result , more than 1,200 birds died . How serious is the effect of this event on the environment ? A ) Not very serious B ) Unfortunate C ) Serious D ) Disastrous B - As a result of natural oil seepage on the ocean floor ( through channels and cracks in the Earth 's crust ) , a large quantity of petroleum is released into the ocean . As a result , more than 1,200 birds died . How serious is the effect of this event on the environment ? A ) Not very serious B ) Unfortunate C ) Serious D ) Disastrous Question 6 Linda is 31 years old and very bright . As a student , she was deeply concerned with issues of discrimination and social justice , and also participated in anti-nuclear demonstrations . Indicate how likely the following statements are to be true ( 0 = completely unlikely to 100 = certain ) . A ) Linda is active in the feminist movement B ) Linda is a bank teller C ) Linda is a bank teller and is active in the feminist movement
, engineer and inventor Vouillamoz would n't let go of the idea until he came up with a possible solution years later : Two flexible reservoirs , one at each end of a circular , enclosed tube , were to be filled with different-colored liquids that do not mix . When one reservoir is compressed , its fluid flows into the tube to indicate the time ; meanwhile , the other fluid is forced back into its reservoir . Positive and negative polarity ensures separation of the two liquids . Like magnets , they repel each other at the point where they meet . With the help of Patrick Berdoz , a longstanding friend and experienced entrepreneur from the medical technology field , Vouillamoz embarked on an adventure . Berdoz recognized the idea 's potential , and recruited additional engineers from his network . Together they drew up the first technical specifications . Emmanuel Savioz , another experienced start-up entrepreneur , soon joined the team and the HYT company was set up . After a year 's intensive research and development work , an initial prototype was produced . However , some important steps first had to be taken on the road to creating a luxury watch : Although Vouillamoz , Berdoz , and Savioz now had the fundamental technology to produce a water wristwatch , they had no experience of the watch industry . In 2010 , they finally succeeded in hiring CEO Vincent Perriard , a passionate watchmaker who had spent many years working at renowned firms such as Audemars Piguet , Concord , and Technomarine . " It 's always been a dream of mine to work with water and mechanics , because they 're two diametrically opposed worlds , " says Perriard . " The biggest challenges lay in finding an interface between the mechanical movement in the watch mechanism and the fluid system , housing the two systems in a confined space , and ensuring they interact perfectly , " recalls Berdoz . The liquids also had to be developed in accordance with watchmaking industry requirements . They need to be able to resist vibration , knocks , and temperature fluctuations , as well as be stable over a long period . Calculation of the exact volume of fluid in the two reservoirs was also critical : " The total volume in the closed loop must be accurate down to the microliter , " says Berdoz . In addition , HYT developed a special system for adjusting the time of the watch . This prevents the liquids from flowing too quickly and getting mixed together . The watch mechanism also had to be developed from scratch , because the reservoirs containing the liquids took up a considerable portion of the available space . That task was entrusted to Manufaktur Chronode in Le Locle . Neuchâtel firm Etude de Style was responsible for designing the watch . The concept was presented to various watch dealers and distributors from summer 2011 onward . By the time of the watch and jewelry fair Baselworld 2012 , HYT 's watchmakers were in a position to present the world 's first mechanical-fluidic hybrid watch - the H1 - to an enthusiastic audience . It costs between 43,000 and 65,000 Swiss francs , depending on the model . " Although we 've not yet been able to ship the watch , many dealers and collectors paid upfront for their watch on the spot . That 's not normal in the watch industry , " Berdoz explains . The creators are already busy working on successor models , the H2 , H3 , and H4 . The target audience consists mainly of collectors and watch aficionados from all around the world . The new concept and attractive shareholder base also proved persuasive for SVC Ltd . for Risk Capital for SMEs . From a very early stage , it provided HYT with seed funding - partly on account of the many advance orders . This was later followed by growth financing , to ensure the company can fully exploit the potential of its innovation . " SVC 's involvement is also important to us , in that such a renowned investor opened the door to other financiers , " notes Berdoz . " With fluid mechanics , we have given the world of watchmaking a new means of expression , " he continues . But the passionate entrepreneur and his team have a lot of other cards up their sleeves : In the course of developing and designing the H1 , the engineers also acquired unique expertise in the field of microfluidics - the behavior of fluids in tiny spaces . Various related patents have been registered . " Our technology could be used for accurate injections in the medical sector , or the diffusion of fragrances , for example , " says Berdoz , with an eye to the future .
the US currency will begin in 2014 , according to their forecasts . In an early October report , analysts noted that the dollar rally had stalled against the G10 currencies . Despite weakening slightly in December , the dollar has been trending higher since mid-October . The Bank of England 's effective exchange rate data shows that at 87'3986 as of Jan. 7 , the dollar is approximately 7 percent stronger than it was at the beginning of 2013 . Credit Suisse expects the trade-weighted dollar index to rise to 90.70 over the next three months and to 95.99 over the coming year . The analysts say a likely divergence in monetary policymaking among the world 's largest central banks in 2014 should give the rally traction . Consider the following three examples : The Fed announced in December that it would begin reducing quantitative easing measures , while the Bank of Japan is widely expected to step up its own asset-buying program early this year.With inflation at worryingly low levels , the European Central Bank is not only unlikely to raise rates , but could actually ease further.The mining investment boom that had thus far helped Australia to avoid most of the negative effects of the Great Recession has just about run its course . Credit Suisse 's analysts expected mining investment to peak at about 8 percent of GDP in 2013 . The Australian economy is due for a major rebalancing , and if the value of the Aussie does n't fall on its own , the Reserve Bank of Australia will come under more pressure to push it down by cutting interest rates again . The central bank already made 25-basis-point cuts in both May and August of 2013 , leaving the current cash rate at 2.5 percent . As a result of the above , the Credit Suisse analysts expect the yen and the Australian dollar to fall " substantially " against the greenback , and for the euro to follow suit later on . They expect the dollar-yen exchange rate , for example , to rise to 120 yen for every dollar from its current level of about 105 , according to a recent forecast report in December . And while an Australian dollar now gets you about 0.89 US dollars , it will only get you 0.80 US dollars this time by the end of this year , the analysts forecast . Similarly , a single euro will currently buy you about 1.36 US dollars , but they expect that to fall to 1.24 US dollars by December 2014 . And the analysts do n't expect the moves to be short-lived . Rather , they consider early 2014 to be the long-awaited start of a period of dollar outperformance of a kind that historically has lasted anywhere from six to nine years . It took six months for the divergence to get going , so the dollar 's response to interest rate changes is neither automatic nor immediate . Indeed , in seven out of eight recent periods in which interest rates rose - the first in March 1972 and the most recent in June 2004 - the dollar actually lost value in the first year of each multi-year cycle before eventually following the more logical trajectory of strengthening . Investors were not simply being irrational by shunning dollars just as they are expected to begin appreciating . Consider what it means to " own " , or to be long , the dollar . Most investors seeking a way to profit from changes in exchange rates turn to government bonds , and in the case of the dollar , that means Treasuries . Given the size of the U.S. government 's current account deficit , which is financed with regular auctions of Treasury bills and notes , odds are that these investors already have a significant chunk of Treasury securities in their portfolios . And as rates were rising , they were watching the value of those assets erode . With little clarity on just how far rates could go , the risk of buying too soon was akin to doubling down on an unfavorable investment - and the possibility that the new purchases would soon be declining in value as well . What we witnessed for much of 2013 is the outcome of that thought process in action . As the yield on the 10-year Treasury has risen , foreign owners of these bonds have responded by selling , rather than by buying more . Markets had long been expecting the Federal Reserve to start reducing monthly asset purchases either in December or January , and now that they have actually done so , Credit Suisse expects U.S. Treasury yields should soon stabilize at a new , higher level ( around 3 percent on 10-year notes , close to the current 2.96 percent rate ) . Considering both of those things , history and logic suggest that investors would focus less on their recent capital losses ( and the fear of adding to them ) and more on the opportunity presented by higher yields . That mindset shift seems now to be under way , if belatedly so . It 's a great reminder that even if two market trends tend to frequent the same parties , they may not always arrive together .
that is what provides access to the labor market . At the same time , the way companies conduct themselves when they streamline is important and , conversely , how many new jobs they create . Another big question for me concerns unemployment , illness , disability and retirement : How can we ensure that people are able to sustain themselves in these situations ? Bigler : It 's very hard when people lose their jobs . Their entire life concept is called into question . The threat of this scenario probably plays a major role in people 's personal views . Rossini : Perhaps it is because of the higher unemployment rate in French-speaking Switzerland , which increases the feeling of competition with foreign workers . But you also have to remember that the French-speaking Swiss clearly voted " no " in the referendum on mass immigration in greater numbers than German-speaking Swiss did . Bigler : From a governmental policy perspective , we would do well to carry on with Switzerland 's humanitarian tradition . However , there are some fears among the population that we must take seriously . One difficult question is the distinction between true refugees and economic refugees . More consistent enforcement of asylum laws seems to me to be an important approach . Rossini : For me , the priorities are different . In our society , which is strongly influenced by individualism , living together has become a big challenge . In order to continue the Swiss humanitarian tradition , we need to better inform and enlighten . We need a culture of openness and solidarity . Only in this way can we prevent our society from becoming mired in self-interest . Rossini : Globalization and the high level of mobility among the population offer one explanation for a certain shifting in the direction of a national identity . But it 's important to see things in a nuanced manner , because there is another level of identity that has not lost its importance : the cantonal level . Federalism is and will continue to be a pillar of national solidarity for both the population and for the authorities . Rossini : In the past , the left was often viewed by conservatives as unpatriotic because they represented values such as openness and social justice . This was wrong . As you can see from the results of the Worry Barometer , this is a patent falsehood on the part of the right . Bigler : Let me offer you another explanation for the national pride : In light of the financial crisis , which affected all of Europe except for Switzerland , the view that we have a truly successful model has taken hold among the populace . Everyone benefits from this and it strengthens identification with the homeland . We can be proud of our country ! Rossini : Defending Switzerland means taking part in the international discussion and playing an active role in shaping the rules of the game . An isolated Switzerland cannot go on the offensive . We 're wealthy , but small . As a result , we need others in all areas : education , research , the economy . Beyond simply defending our interests , we also have to play an open and responsible part in global affairs . Bigler : The Federal Council , in particular , must step up to the challenge . It should be more assertive in dealing with other countries when it comes to vigorously representing our interests . Bigler : The Swiss electorate opposed mass immigration , and now Switzerland must implement this new constitutional provision . At the same time , we cannot jeopardize the bilateral agreements with the EU . Rossini : On this point , I agree ! The bilateral path is currently the only possible option ; that 's why the Federal Council is actively engaged in strengthening the bilateral process . However , we in Switzerland also have to recognize that the EU has its own basic rules and principles , which it legitimately defends - specifically , free movement of people . Bigler : We should leave the Federal Council in peace as it conducts these difficult negotiations . The constant influx of new proposed solutions is definitely not constructive . Rossini : Optimism has always been an excellent indicator . It is the engine of both individual and collective commitment . It influences innovation and creativity . It is an important stability factor . Political and economic stakeholders have a responsibility not to foment fear . They should not take positions or express opinions that question the social progress of the public sector . Bigler : A strong economy is not guaranteed . We must take account of economic and political conditions , as well as our locational advantages . Initiatives , such as the one to abolish lump-sum taxation , could lead to millions in lost taxes and call into question the solidarity between urban and rural voters . But the call by the left for an inheritance tax also threatens jobs in the SME sector significantly because it jeopardizes solutions for succession . Bigler : My focus is on how we live together on a daily basis within our families and in the surrounding community . Mutual support and a willingness to help one another lead to a better quality of life , greater contentment and social balance without the need for unwanted government intrusion . Rossini : Respect , tolerance and solidarity are the key qualities and values for ensuring social cohesion and the prosperity of the country . These are the success factors for living together , for prosperity ... and for our happiness !
President Cristina Kirchner 's government is merely alleviating the symptoms of the country 's economic malaise , rather than addressing the root causes , according to a report by Credit Suisse analysts Casey Reckman and Daniel Chodos entitled , " Argentina : An Unsteady State . " Put simply , the government is n't tightening fiscal policy enough to tame the out-of-control inflation that is the country 's primary problem . And the heavy public spending and subsidies fueling the rise in consumer prices will soon put Argentina right back where it started . By year-end , say the analysts , the country will likely have to go through a second , larger devaluation . " Argentina 's current economic situation is unsustainable , " the analysts say . " The government 's approach … still seems improvised and uncoordinated , which undermines its attempts to anchor expectations and restore confidence . Moreover , it has targeted the decline in reserves and other distortions that are symptoms of Argentina 's economic issues rather than addressing the underlying causes . " That 's because government policy is what triggered the decline in foreign reserves - and not the other way around . The expropriation of private company assets - such as the 2012 seizure of Spanish oil company Repsol 's operations in the country - has dampened foreign investment . Making matters worse , the country has been locked out of international debt markets since its 2001 default , forcing it to use foreign reserves to fund imports and repay debt issued before it lost market access . Reserves dropped more than 12 billion US dollars to 30.6 billion US dollars in 2013 after sitting at more than 52 billion US dollars as recently as 2010 . And Credit Suisse thinks they will continue to plummet , to 22.1 billion US dollars this year and 15.7 billion US dollars in 2015 . That said , the government 's January 22 and 23 devaluation was a move in the right direction . Combined with efforts to tighten monetary conditions through higher interest rates , the markdown of the peso is likely to " provide temporary relief for the peso and international reserves " until exports from the grains and oilseeds harvest starts bringing more dollars into the economy in March or April , according to another Credit Suisse report entitled " Argentina : Bandaged , But Not Cured . " The South American nation also relaxed restrictions on individuals purchasing dollars for savings purposes . Because Argentina tightly controls currency exchange as a way of supporting the peso and reducing capital flight , a black market for dollars has arisen in which the peso is 35 percent weaker than the official rate . Anecdotal evidence suggests that dollar outflows are even more restricted since the devaluation , which should increase pressure on the parallel exchange rate and further help slow the evaporation of reserves . The government will also seek to tamp down inflation by keeping wage increases to a minimum when it begins negotiations with labor unions in March . Still , these are Band-Aids and not the necessary surgery . Dollar inflows will begin to slow as the harvest subsides around August , at which point inflation " could erode the benefits of January 's devaluation in no more than six months ' time , " Reckman and Chodos said . Indeed , the government reported consumer prices rose 3.7 percent in January compared with the previous month . Credit Suisse thinks inflation could reach 40 percent this year , up from 28.4 percent last year . And that 's why Credit Suisse is currently expecting reserves to dip below 25 billion US dollars by year-end , which could necessitate a fourth quarter devaluation of 30 percent . " [ That ] second adjustment could be an even riskier and more disruptive undertaking than the most recent one , " Reckman and Chodos said . " It would produce another inflationary shock and … could quickly lead to heightened social and political tensions . " How so ? Just consider what the effect of another devaluation is likely to be on the real economy . It would prompt continued inflation , which would spur policymakers to raise interest rates again . Naturally , both of those things would tend to make consumers a little queasier about spending and further spook domestic investors . As a result , the economy may contract 0.5 percent next year , according to Credit Suisse . Economic indicators already look sickly , too . Credit Suisse projects a contraction in GDP of 0.3 percent for this year . Consumer confidence fell to 33.5 in February from 43.7 in January - the fourth consecutive monthly decline - according to a survey by Di Tella University in Buenos Aires . The indicator is currently at its lowest level since September 2002 . But it is in 2015 that the true nightmare scenario could take shape , as falling reserves increase the risk that Argentina wo n't be able to pay its creditors - again . While Argentina 's debt is manageable this year , bonds maturing next year will increase the country 's foreign-currency 2015 debt service costs to 12.5 billion US dollars . That figure , which includes both interest payments and repayment of maturing bonds , amounts to 56.4 percent of Credit Suisse 's end-2014 forecast for foreign reserves . " This makes the outlook for dollar debt service look more worrisome , " Reckman and Chodos said . Amid the turbulence , officials are reassuring the population that they have the situation under control . " The government is the one that can best defend the Argentine people 's moral integrity , their pocketbooks , their past and their future , " Kirchner 's cabinet chief Jorge Capitanich said several days after the devaluation , according to Argentine newspaper La Nacion . They 've got their work cut out for them if they want to prove it .
environment for stocks everywhere . But O'Sullivan expects European and Japanese equities to outperform British and American stocks over the next three to six months , largely due to differences in monetary policy . " The Bank of England will very soon start draining liquidity , and it 's an open question when the Federal Reserve will begin to raise rates , " he says . " In Europe and Japan , not only do you have a cyclical recovery , but the European Central Bank is active , and the Bank of Japan is expected to be active later on this year . " In early June , the European Central Bank introduced negative deposit rates and announced a targeted long-term refinancing operation ( TLTRO ) that could inject as much as 1 trillion euros into European banks over the next two years . It 's not as dramatic as quantitative easing , but O'Sullivan says the move was nevertheless a significant event in a region where banks have been deleveraging for the last two years . " The effect of this kind of extraordinary monetary policy should be quite different in Europe than in the United States , " he says . " Whereas the US is a market-driven economy , Europe is much more reliant upon banks and should see a relatively larger benefit from an attempt to push more liquidity into the banking system . " The measures , says O'Sullivan , should bolster the ongoing European recovery and prevent a deflationary shock . ( Annual inflation in Europe has been below 1 percent for nine months . ) The European manufacturing sector expanded for the twelfth straight month in June , while services businesses reported an eleventh consecutive month of growth . If demand for consumer goods and industrial equipment keeps rising , the ECB may succeed in easing credit conditions just as businesses are seeking fresh loans to invest and expand . What 's more , says O'Sullivan , the ECB could still introduce an asset purchase program later this year . Equities in peripheral Europe have outperformed over the past year , but Credit Suisse 's Private Banking analysts believe markets may have overheated in places such as Italy , where equities are up 14 percent year to date . They think that German stocks , which are poised to benefit from an already strong economy 's accelerating growth over the next six months , have more room to run . In Japan , meanwhile , the consumer price index rose 3.4 percent and 3.7 percent year-over-year in April and May , respectively , the highest rates in 32 years and a welcome change from the drag of deflation between June 2012 and May 2013 . Some of that increase could be due to the after-effects of retailers hiking their prices ahead of a value-added tax increase in April , but Credit Suisse economists believe inflation would have been positive even after adjusting for the tax hike . Retail sales fell 4.4 percent year-over-year in April , but only 0.4 percent in May , indicating that sticker shock may be fading . Two months does not a trend make , however , and Private Banking analysts say the Bank of Japan will likely re-evaluate the state of the recovery in the third quarter , despite the fact that Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said in April that he saw no need for further stimulus . At the very least , the analysts believe policymakers will continue their current 6 trillion yen ( 59 billion US dollars ) to 8 trillion yen ( 79 billion US dollars ) in monthly asset purchases until the end of 2015 . Companies included in the benchmark TOPIX index have announced 25 billion US dollars ' worth of stock buybacks this year , spurred on by relatively low valuations , low interest rates , and a 232 trillion yen ( 2.29 trillion US dollar ) cash pile . O'Sullivan says companies that would benefit from a cyclical upturn , such as industrials companies and machinery manufacturers , look particularly promising . Structural reforms - the so-called third arrow of Abenomics - could also boost Japanese equities . In June , Prime Minister Shinzo Abe proposed lowering the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to below 30 percent and shifting Japanese government pension fund allocations away from government bonds toward equities . Many investors in British and American equities have profited handsomely over the last few years from central bank-fueled economic recoveries . In today 's market , the geography has shifted , but not the strategy .
. However , just 7 percent of voters expect their personal well-being to decline , and two-thirds of respondents believe that their situation will remain unchanged . Overall , these moderately optimistic , yet also somewhat pessimistic survey results are in keeping with economic indicators in the early fall of 2014 . The Purchasing Managers Index ( PMI ) , compiled by Credit Suisse in cooperation with procure.ch , continues to point to an expansion in Switzerland 's industrial sector , but expectations for economic growth have clearly declined since the spring . Switzerland 's labor market , which is still quite robust overall , is also showing signs of weakening . Another economic downturn in the euro zone is the primary reason for declining growth in the industrial sector . After a period of recovery in 2013 , Italy and France once again slid back into recession , which has in turn affected the economy in Germany , our most important trading partner . The conflict in Ukraine and the resulting drop in German exports to Russia and Eastern Europe , along with the persistent economic slowdown in China and other emerging markets , have caused problems for Germany - which , in turn , has affected Switzerland 's export industry . The US economic engine does not appear to be strong enough to offset these negative effects . With the exception of the recession in 2009 , which in spite of the global financial crisis turned out to be relatively mild , the Swiss economy has been remarkably successful at weathering turbulence in Europe . The reason is what we refer to as the " super cycle " in Switzerland 's domestic economy : Extremely low interest rates - a result of the monetary policy put in place by the Swiss National Bank in response to upward pressure on the Swiss franc and the risk of deflation - stimulated demand for credit-financed residential property and durable goods.Relatively unrestrained financial policies in the cantons and communities , as well as steadily rising subsidies in the healthcare system , have led to greater overall economic demand.The agreement with the EU on the free movement of persons , as well as an increase in the labor supply as a result of the euro crisis , have made it easy to meet the demand for workers.Immigration and higher employment have also stimulated the real estate market . This " super cycle " seems to have protected the Swiss economy against external economic upheaval . Whether one should be optimistic or pessimistic about the prospects for Switzerland 's economy in the coming year depends on the answers to these two questions : Will the world economy , and particularly the European Monetary Union , return to a path of robust growth in the near future ? Second , will the " super cycle " in Switzerland 's domestic economy continue , perhaps at a slower rate , or is it possible that it will come to an abrupt end ? We tend to be pessimistic about the first question , in particular . A number of fundamental considerations suggest that the global economy is likely to remain fragile and that we will not soon transition to broad-based , robust growth . First of all , private households still have a high level of debt in many of the more developed countries , and private debt has risen substantially in many emerging countries too , as in Brazil for example . As a result , there is pressure to save money , and consumers are likely to continue to be cautious . Second , the level of public debt is much higher in nearly every country than it was before the financial crisis . Here , too , it will be necessary to cut costs . Since a large share of tax revenues goes to transfer payments ( and it is politically very difficult to change that situation ) , it seems quite unlikely that a public policy of investment aimed at promoting growth will be adopted . Cautious consumers and financial uncertainty are hardly a recipe for a substantial increase in corporate investment . Companies , too , are likely to continue to be cautious . Furthermore , fiscal issues increase pressure on the central banks to pursue a very expansive policy . While this policy may reduce the risk of recession , the question is to what extent it leads to sustainable investment growth . Finally , the overall political situation offers little reason for hope that we are about to enter a new period of strong global growth . In today 's multipolar world , which seems to have taken the place of hegemonic dominance by the United States and the West , geopolitical tensions are unlikely to decline over the long term . This will inhibit rather than encourage investment activity . Particularly in periods of economic instability , moreover , there is a tendency toward increased protectionism . In general , it is proving difficult to achieve cooperative , efficient international solutions , for example to further stabilize the international financial system . This , too , makes it more difficult to return to higher growth . As a result , we are unable to make optimal use of continuing rapid technological progress . There is another structural problem as well : the progressive aging of the population , which limits growth . A certain degree of pessimism also seems warranted when it comes to the future of Switzerland 's " super cycle . " Persistently low interest rates and the real estate boom have encouraged a trend toward increasing household debt in Switzerland too . Understandably , concern over an excessively rapid increase in loans and areas of potential instability in the financial system have attracted the attention of regulators . Self-regulatory measures in the affected industries have finally begun to reduce the rate of growth in Iending and indebtedness . We can therefore hope that the credit and real estate cycle will come to a gradual end , although such a soft landing is by no means guaranteed . A decline in demand , triggered by other kinds of turmoil in Europe or worldwide , could have a serious effect on Switzerland 's labor market . In that case , the real estate boom might give way to a dramatic decline and a shortage of refinancing . Switzerland 's economic prospects will be affected not only by European and global growth , but also by the outcome of the pending negotiations with the European Union . Continuing uncertainty over the status of our bilateral agreements would certainly have a negative effect on investments in Switzerland by both domestic and foreign companies . Thus there is considerable uncertainty about the future of the Swiss economy - despite its strengths , which have been demonstrated over and over again .
took place : Following the Indian Wells tournament , the two Swiss jointly led the annual ranking ( " Race to London " ) , in which all players start from scratch at the beginning of the season , directly followed by Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic . The similarities , however , do not stop there . Side by side , " Fedrinka , " as the duo is occasionally known , beat Serbia and then Kazakhstan in the Davis Cup , leading Switzerland to its first semifinal since 2003 . This gives them the opportunity , between September 12 and 14 in Geneva 's Palexpo , to lead their country to this competition 's final for the second time - the first being in 1992 , when Jakob Hlasek and Marc Rosset narrowly lost against the US in Fort Worth , Texas . The prospect of the semifinal , which will take place in front of 18,400 spectators and was quickly sold out , further strengthens the bond between the two teammates and 2008 Olympic doubles winners . In the recently concluded clay season , the form curves were also similar , albeit similarly disappointing . Following the brilliant start in Monte Carlo , where they even dueled in the final and Wawrinka won his second-most important title , the next weeks did not go according to plan for the two world conquerors , at least from an athletic perspective . Federer missed Madrid due to the birth of his twin sons Leo and Lenny , immediately failed in Rome against the Frenchman Jérémy Chardy , and suffered an unexpected defeat in the last sixteen in Paris against the Latvian Ernests Gulbis , missing a smash that would have brought him a 2 : 0-set-lead . Wawrinka fared even worse , losing the opening matches in Madrid and Paris to outsiders Thiem and Garcia-Lopez , and winning only one match in Rome in between . Therefore , both Swiss players were not just overtaken in the " Race to London , ' ' they were left fairly far behind . The good thing about it : Ahead of Wimbledon , they are still the first behind Nadal ( 6,465 points ) and Djokovic ( 5,250 ) and well on track to once again jointly reach the season finale in November in London . Wawrinka ( 3,735 ) is still ahead of Federer ( 3,360 ) , even though the latter won his seventh title , and second of this season , on grass at Halle on June 15 . Another similarity : Wawrinka 's first grass tournament also went well , with a semifinal on the same day at London 's Queen 's Club . The two countrymen are therefore in similar starting positions prior to the traditional highlight of the tennis year , the Wimbledon Championships ( June 23 to July 6 ) . This is despite the fact that Federer is considered the ultimate grass king , a surface that favors talent , improvisation , and offensive play , while Wawrinka is a comparatively inexperienced grass player . The statistical comparison , at least , is crushing for the player from French-speaking Switzerland : While Federer with 14 grass titles , seven each in Wimbledon and Halle , and a match record of 125 victories and 18 defeats is the most successful professional grass player of the age , Wawrinka has a clearly negative record with 15 victories and 19 defeats . In 2003 , Federer started on a series of 10 tournament victories and 65 match victories on grass , which was only ended at dusk in the 2008 Wimbledon final by Rafael Nadal . Over the past 11 years , he has won 109 of his 116 matches on this surface and is therefore as dominant as Nadal is on clay . However , Wawrinka should not be underestimated in Wimbledon . " I have never been able to prepare for grass as much as I have this year , and I feel good , " he said shortly before the tournament . " If I start well , I can achieve a lot . " Swiss tennis expert Heinz Günthardt even believes him capable of scoring another great coup : " If he survives the first week , there is no reason why he should n't win the tournament , " he said following the French Open . However , Federer is considered much stronger and received a shot of self-confidence with his victory at the Gerry Weber Open . " Every tournament victory is special and I am overjoyed that I have won here again , " he said following the 7:6 , 7:6 final against the Columbian Alejandro Falla , his 79th tournament victory . After Nadal lost his first game in the same tournament to outsider Dustin Brown and with Djokovic starting Wimbledon without a preparation tournament , another set goes to the Swiss at the start of the grass season . In addition , neither has a lot of pressure starting Wimbledon ; after all , 2013 marked Federer 's earliest failure in the All England Club in 11 years , as he lost in the second round to the Ukrainian Sergiy Stakhovsky , while Wawrinka had to leave after the opening match against the indestructible Australian Lleyton Hewitt . The 29-year old Lausanne native has only won one match in the last four Wimbledon tournaments , but was nonetheless in the last sixteen in 2008 and 2009 . The special thing about the Swiss success story is that the man from Basel and the man from Vaud do not see each other as rivals , but acknowledge each other 's successes and even use them as building blocks for themselves . Federer never misses an opportunity to declare himself Wawrinka 's biggest fan , while the latter is remarkably persistent in stating that , whatever he himself may win , Federer remains the greatest player that tennis has ever seen . The Future Now Credit Suisse Global Megatrends Conference New York 2014
is lower than in other recoveries . Neal Soss , Credit Suisse 's Vice Chairman of Global Fixed Income and Economics Research , says that it 's not unusual to have periods of sluggish growth after a major financial crisis , as governments , businesses , financial institutions , and consumers retrench . The danger arises if that retrenchment phase drags on for too long . At that point , mediocre growth can start to feel more permanent , and businesses will feel a declining incentive to invest in the possibility of expansion . What 's more , the skills of the long-term unemployed can atrophy to the point that they verge on being permanently unemployable . " The downside to an episode of this sort - if that sluggish growth continues - is n't just the slower growth itself . It 's that the potential of the economy will deteriorate , " he says . With no new fiscal or monetary stimulus on the horizon , there is concern among economists that world leaders are running that very risk . " Most of the world is allergic to explicit fiscal stimulus and the public sector balance sheet leverage it implies , " Credit Suisse 's fixed income analysts wrote in their most recent quarterly global economics survey . European officials have imposed stringent austerity requirements on Greece , Spain , Portugal , and Ireland in exchange for their various bailouts . A combination of tax increases and spending cuts over the last four years have reduced the US budget deficit from 10 percent of GDP in 2009 ( 1.4 trillion US dollars ) to a projected 3 percent ( 514 billion US dollars ) this year . Japan 's consumption tax rose from 5 percent to 8 percent without any accompanying monetary stimulus , a reflection of how eager Japanese policymakers are to shrink both the deficit and the public debt , which is twice the size of the economy . Meanwhile , Chinese authorities are trying to rein in local government spending by reducing credit availability , while Brazil pledged to cut its budget by 18.5 billion US dollars in February to meet a budget surplus target of 1.9 percent . Additional monetary stimulus seems equally unlikely . Most central bankers are keeping monetary policy accommodative , but the Federal Reserve is steadily winding down quantitative easing , and both the Bank of Japan and European Central Bank have disappointed those who were confident they would ease further in the first quarter . Several countries are also implementing structural reforms that will cause further short-term pain in the hopes of increased economic potential five or more years down the line . China 's efforts to rebalance its economy toward domestic consumption , for example , will ultimately create a more sustainable growth model that does n't depend on ill-advised local government borrowing financed by shadow banking . The recent crackdown on official corruption is also a move in the right direction . But both moves have contributed to China 's declining GDP growth , which is even below the government 's own 7.5 percent forecast . The Reserve Bank of India , meanwhile , aims to bring inflation to 4 percent within two years , down from an average of 8.4 percent since 2005 . The " extremely conservative " policies required to achieve that will surely restrict growth , Credit Suisse economists say . If policymakers seem unlikely to kick-start the global economy , an increase in business spending could do the trick . The conditions are certainly ripe for it . At the end of the fourth quarter of 2013 , US businesses made record post-tax profits of 1.9 trillion US dollars , up 35 percent from the previous peak of 1.41 trillion US dollars in 2006 . Net corporate cash flow reached its highest-ever level in the third quarter of 2013 at 2.28 trillion US dollars . And yet , at 458.6 billion US dollars in the fourth quarter of 2013 , net private domestic business investment in the US was still below 2007 levels . " Some of that , I suspect , is simply the passage of time , as confidence heals after the crisis we 've had , " Soss says . " But we 're apparently still lacking that something that will give business leadership the kind of confidence in the medium- and long-term future that gets cash out of their hands and turned into actual business activity . " Maybe that something is an unexpected positive surprise , or maybe it 's a few more months of encouraging economic data - enough to prove this recovery is the real deal , even if it 's slower and weaker than we 'd have hoped .
result , it is no longer necessary to handle the goods themselves . This saves time and money , which , in addition to other developments such as abolishing customs and excise , has driven global trade and the global division of labor since the 1960s . According to estimates , the introduction of the box alone increased the volume of trade in the northern hemisphere nearly nine-fold in 20 years . The productivity of port workers rose sharply because it was no longer necessary to handle pieces individually . For example , British ports could now handle 30 metric tons of goods per hour - over 15 times more than before . Thanks to direct loading from road and rail to ship , one of the bottlenecks that accounted for nearly half of transport costs as late as 1960 was eliminated . While today the introduction of containers may appear logical - even obvious - at the time they seemed anything but practical , as a number of expensive adjustments were necessary . The price for standard usage and complete utilization of the advantages was extremely high . Container ships cost nearly four times as much per cubic foot of cargo space compared to traditional shipping . A container crane cost 1.75 million US dollars , and the container itself was 3,500 US dollars . In the first decade following their introduction , Australia was the only country to use containers besides the US , also initially for domestic transportation only . The first international usage occurred in 1966 with the transportation of boxes between the eastern coast of the US and Europe . Following the standardization of the container size at 2.6 meters high , 2.4 meters wide , and 6.1 meters long the next year , the simple transfer of goods between different modes of transport became a reality . By the mid-1970s , more than 40 countries had built port infrastructure for containers , including the Netherlands and the UK in 1966 , followed by Switzerland , France , Germany , Italy and Japan two years later . Yet there was still very little freight actually being transported in containers . Broad usage was bolstered initially by the US military , which by the end of the 1960s often shipped cargo for the Vietnam War and the Cold War in containers . This removed one obstacle to their wider use , as providers of partial containers emerged . Smaller companies could now use the box as well , even if they did not want to ship an entire container . Between 1984 and 2008 just under two-thirds of all goods that could be transported in containers were actually transported in this manner . Although today just under 15 percent of the total volume of maritime trade is shipped in containers , this represents more than half of such trade in terms of value , as electronic devices transported in boxes , for example , are more valuable than , say , wheat , oil and other commodities , which are not transported in containers . By the beginning of the new millennium the center of container trade had shifted to Asia . With just under 22 million standard containers transported ( 2012 ) , the connection between Asia and North America is the most important trading route in the world , followed by the route between Asia and northern Europe , with just over 13 million containers . Nine of the ten largest ports are in Asia , with seven in China alone . However , Europe is still home to the three largest shipping companies in the world : French company CMA CGM , the Mediterranean Shipping Company ( MSC ) , based in Geneva , and Danish company Maersk Line . Global container handling grew by an average of 10 percent per year between 1990 and 2008 , but the sector was not spared by the financial and economic crisis of 2008 . In 2009 , container trade fell for the first time in history , declining by 9 percent . Since then , the sector has struggled with overcapacity and falling prices . While the transportation of a standard container from southern China to northern Europe in May 2008 cost 4,000 US dollars , it cost less than half of that by the end of 2008 . Since then , prices have fluctuated sharply and even dropped to 400 US dollars in mid-2013 - about one-third of the price needed to cover costs . Cargo specialists continue to expect greater capacity than growth in demand in the near future . While many container ships were ordered before the crisis , long production times meant that they were not launched until 2008 . Paradoxically , despite the overcapacity , the largest ships ever built are currently being launched , with space for more than 18,000 standard containers . This can be explained by greater cost efficiency , represented by the three E 's : economies of scale , energy efficiency and environment . Providers can transport a box on a ship with space for 10,000 standard containers for half the cost of transporting on a ship with capacity for 2,500 units . Competition is thus intensifying , particularly on the main routes . The three dominant European providers plan to join forces in an alliance to divide up shipping . However , regulators have yet to give their approval . Smaller competitors are likewise in negotiations concerning an alliance . As a result , the range of routes and services offered to customers could increase . Because the consolidated volumes would be higher , some connections and offers would be profitable . This , in turn , could further bolster trade integration . The impact on prices is clear . First , the partners would be able to offer lower rates as a result of efficiency improvements , with the additional goal of squeezing out smaller competitors . In addition , they would also be better able to tailor their coordinated offering to demand on the respective routes . This could halt the price decline caused by overcapacity . Whether these changes will result in the same success as the introduction of containers , however , remains to be seen . The next major change may be imminent , but its outcome is highly uncertain . The success of the introduction of standard containers itself was not inevitable , of course . And yet the steel box has revolutionized global trade . This article was originally published in Bulletin magazine . To order a copy , or download the PDF , please visit the Publications Shop .
Suisse global real estate analyst Zoltan Szelyes . " We are expecting a soft landing in both markets . We do not expect prices to fall on average but rather a deceleration in price growth . " Related Link : Credit Suisse Research The US has experienced a construction boom in the last five years that appears to have overreached itself , particularly in states such as Florida , Arizona , Nevada and Washington DC . The surge was sparked in 2001 by low supply , robust growth in employment , an expansionist monetary policy and a trend for many households to redirect investments away from stock markets into housing . By the end of July of this year sales volumes of newly constructed and existing houses were down 22 percent and 11 percent respectively year-on-year . Median house prices in August were hovering at roughly last year 's levels after double-digit growth in 2004 . Socio-demographic developments in the UK have helped keep residential housing prices buoyant for several years . Between 1996 and the end of 2004 cumulative prices rose by 260 perce nt and have revived again this year despite a slowdown in 2005 . Strong continued migration has boosted demand while the number of persons per household has decreased from 2.8 in the 1970s to 2.3 , with the number of one-person households increasing from 27 percent to 31 percent . The boom years seem surely at an end in both countries , but Szelyes does not believe that a cooling of residential property prices will necessarily drag down the rest of the economy . " The effect real estate has on consumption is mostly overestimated . The most important effect is income dynamics and employment growth should still remain steady next year , " he said . On the other side of the coin , there are plenty of commercial property investment opportunities if you know where to look . Yields in some parts of the world have now dropped below bond yields , a factor that demands a certain amount of shopping around . But many markets in Asia , Eastern Europe and a reviving western European still offer potential for rewards . " We see huge potential in Singapore and Tokyo where markets are at their most bullish and office rents should rise in Hong Kong due to low supply and a robust demand , " said Szelyes . " High immigration is also supporting retail sales in Australia where we view shopping centres as attractive ventures . " The office property markets in German , Swedish , French , Spanish and British cities are also showing signs of revival . The comparatively limited supply of commercial property combined with strong economic growth has accelerated the real estate market in Eastern Europe . However , Szelyes advises caution in some of the more economically volatile countries such as Hungary in favour of Poland and the Czech Republic . " Market selection is extremely important in Eastern Europe . Of the potential new European Union member countries , Romania and Bulgaria appear to harbour greater dynamics and higher yields on the real estate market , " he said . Since the mid-1990s , real estate investments have developed into a highly regarded asset class . Alongside conventional direct investments , there are a variety of indirect investment opportunities that eliminate potential disadvantages such as low liquidity and lack of transparency . Real Estate Investment Trust ( REIT ) structures are one of the most popular options that have been gaining in popularity in the last 12 years . REITS were created by a 1960 US act of Congress and are designed to allow small investors to participate in the equity ownership of real estate . REITs are not allowed to invest in riskier development projects and distribute tax-exempt profits to shareholders . REITS have now spread all over the world - combined market capitalisation has grown more than five times since 1994 - and will be introduced in the UK next year . The recent 36 billion dollar buy-out of Equity Office Properties Trust , the largest owner of office buildings in the US , by Blackstone Group demonstrates the popularity and potential of REITS at present .
fewer good left-backs . That I remained uninjured and was able to play in every championship match with Wolfsburg . Health is the most important thing for a footballer . That we missed qualifying for the Champions League by a single point . And , of course , the defeat against Argentina with the Swiss national team in the round of sixteen at the World Cup . We should have played better , and it bothers me . I certainly showed my stuff in Brazil , but I am never entirely satisfied with myself . Maybe I was n't all that bad - but I could have done better : played to a higher standard , gone on the offensive more often . Yes , I get nervous before every match . But , as soon as I make my first pass , the nervousness goes away . I am a laid-back person . On the football pitch , I know what my job is , and I know what I can do . And what I ca n't do , I do n't do . On the contrary . I did a lot of stupid stuff at school . I often got kicked out of class , and my parents were often summoned by the teacher . Today , though I am quiet in public , privately I always enjoy a good joke , and I tell people in no uncertain terms what I think . No. I only remember that I started playing for FC Schwamendingen at age six , and we had an unbeatable team that won almost every tournament . I played defense in the rear , and my older brother Roberto scored the goals up front . Talk ( laughs ) . On the field , however , they are different from me . They both play on offense . Roberto is the fastest of us , and Francisco has a great eye . We were street children . Football was all we had . Our parents did n't have a lot of money , but there was always enough to buy a ball . I support my parents now . They will never have to go without ; I will see to that . When I was 11 or 12 . I knew school was n't for me and that I had to do everything in my power to earn a living by playing football someday . I was taking quite a risk . After finishing compulsory education , I did n't go into vocational training but concentrated on football . Thankfully , my gamble paid off . No. The title was nice but not that important . More important to me was when they told me even before the championship that I would get to train with FCZ 's first team after the tournament . That was my big chance to show what I could do . Angel Di Maria of Real Madrid , Jefferson Farfan of Schalke 04 , and , of course , Arjen Robben of Bayern Munich . You ca n't let him out of your sight for even a second . Otherwise , he 's gone . He reacts to your movements . As soon as you attack , he does a hook , and another , and another - and suddenly he 's gone . But I enjoy playing against such accomplished footballers . Afterwards , I know where I stand . No. I show healthy aggression on the field . But when you play smart defense , it works without committing any rough fouls - usually . My manager told me over the phone . I was so happy , I invited my family to dinner that same evening . Our opponent was Wales , and after Reto Ziegler received a red card , I even got to play . Since that time , I have been on the starting lineup . Not really , no . Our practices are shorter but more intensive . We talk more about tactics , and he calls for a more offensive strategy . He also places tremendous importance on team spirit . With Hitzfeld as coach , we had our meals at tables for eight . With Petkovic , we all eat at one long dining table . Practice , practice , practice . Never give up , and always believe you can do it , even if others are more talented . Someday , I want to play for a major club in Spain or England . And with the Swiss national team , we want to go to the 2016 European Championship in France and get as far as possible . We have the skills to do that .
the title in Cincinnati - only twice had he completed these two tournaments in the Masters series as successfully , in 2007 and 2010 , when he also responded to a defeat in the final in Canada with a triumph in Cincinnati . He had now contested ten matches in 13 days , as well as changed locations . Also behind him was a final that could have backfired on him . Defeat at the hands of David Ferrer , who played exceptionally well , would probably have dealt a blow to his confidence . It would have been his first in 16 encounters with the indefatigable Iberian , who has a talent for mercilessly exploiting the slightest weakness in his opponent and who Federer asserts has made the most of his career . Most of all , it would have been the sixth final defeat in his eighth final of the season , and the fourth in the Masters series . In Indian Wells , he succumbed to Novak Djokovic in a tiebreaker in the third set , in Monte Carlo he lost to Stan Wawrinka having been a set ahead , and in Toronto he suffered a rare defeat to Jo-Wilfried Tsonga . At Wimbledon , meanwhile , he was beaten in the deciding set by Djokovic . However , Federer had by now played a set that raised his already increased confidence to a new level . Ferrer had played magnificently , seizing the second set 6-1 , at one stage even holding two set points that would have made it 6-0 . Yet Federer 's response and the way in which he wrested free of Ferrer 's clutches could not have been more impressive . He dominated the final set from start to finish , winning the match 6-3 , 1-6 , 6-2 and thereby achieving another milestone in his career - the first significant one since his 33rd birthday . For statistics fans : It was his most prestigious title in two years , since his fifth win in Cincinnati in 2012 , and his third of the season ( after Dubai and Halle ) ; in addition , it was his 22nd in the Masters series and 80th overall . Only Jimmy Connors ( 109 ) and Ivan Lendl ( 94 ) have enjoyed more success . Above all , it was the manner in which he was able to pick himself up that contributed to Federer 's euphoria . " It was a wonderful tournament . I got stronger every round and managed to bring out my best tennis in the last set , " he declared enthusiastically . " That 's exactly how you want to win championships , and the fact that it was my 80th makes it even better . " He managed to do everything he needed in the last set : " At the end , I played like a dream ; I was serving perfectly , with good variation . That 's why I think I deserved to win the title . " He admitted that at the beginning of the week , he had even considered for a moment whether to drop out of Cincinnati after the grueling event in Toronto , where he mostly played late into the evening . Now he was happy that he had decided against it : " Now I 've been rewarded for that with a title . " Also awaiting him now was the US Open , to which he was looking forward enormously . Nonetheless , it was a good time to stop for a moment and take a breath . Although Federer had won many matches this year , to the point that he left Cincinnati having notched up victories 45 to 49 , making him the player with the most match wins in the season so far , he had so far lost out at the major titles , mainly to Stan Wawrinka ( Australian Open , Monte Carlo ) , Rafael Nadal ( Madrid , Roland Garros ) , and Novak Djokovic ( Miami , Indian Wells , Rome , Wimbledon ) . Yet whereas Nadal has had to take another injury break because of his right wrist ( after Toronto and Cincinnati , he is also missing New York , where he swept to victory in 2013 ) , Djokovic has managed to win only two matches in two tournaments since Wimbledon and his wedding , and Wawrinka has also failed to make much headway , he has now proved to himself and the whole world that even at the age of 33 , he still has the elixir of champions that has carried him to countless championships and records ; that his back problems are a thing of the past ; and that his arduous year in 2013 was not the beginning of the end but merely a temporary lull brought on by physical problems . The excellent position into which the father of four has once again managed to maneuver himself has naturally inspired fresh hope in himself and his giant global fan base that he could finish this year with yet another grand slam title - his eighteenth . Federer will start in Flushing Meadows as the second seed and the player on the best current form , although Djokovic and Wawrinka , who faced each other in the semi-final last year , are likely to raise their game substantially over Canada and Ohio thanks to the best-of-five format . Meanwhile , the young guard of Grigor Dimitrov , Milos Raonic , and Kei Nishikori will sense an opportunity to break into the ranks of grand slam winners . A love story developed between Federer and Flushing Meadows at an early stage - in fact , he was the first professional to win the US Open five times in succession ( 2004 to 2008 ) . Since then , however , his quest for a sixth triumph in the 23 , 763-seater Arthur Ashe Stadium , the world 's largest tennis arena , has been in vain . In the 2009 final , he lost a 2-1 lead over Argentine Juan Martin del Potro , while events repeated themselves in rare fashion in 2010 and 2011 , when on each occasion , two match points were not enough to win the semi-final against Djokovic . The following year , he failed to make it past the quarter-final against Czech player Tomáš Berdych , before reaching an unexpected low point twelve months ago with his first defeat to Spaniard Tommy Robredo in the fourth round . This year , however , he is starting from a much better position - almost ideal , in fact . Federer is comfortable in the knowledge that he is playing at a high enough level and that he has done his homework and has no need to put in extra shifts shortly before the tournament as he did last year . " Now it 's important for me to take enough of a break , keep my head fresh and hold on to my hunger to win , so that I do n't start the tournament exhausted , " he said in Cincinnati , where his girls were delighted that their dad had finally picked up a major trophy again - even if it did somewhat resemble an old-fashioned vase . " In training , it 's now just about staying at a good level , " commented Federer , who knows how important it is to stay confident . " Once you 've gotten used to winning , as I have , you have to re-learn how to lose . " Words that only a champion sure of his own abilities would say .
timepieces worn by 007 , yet is so revolutionary that it could find its way onto millions of wrists . Its manufacturer is Apple , and it is due to launch in autumn 2014 . The launch date has been suggested not just by speculation in blogs and the media , but also by some of the few facts known about the project . On July 22 of this year , the relevant authority in the USA granted Apple a patent for a " wrist-worn electronic device . " Drawings entitled " iTime " show a strap allowing an attachment to be clipped into it . While competing brands have already launched their own smartwatches , Apple is waiting patiently for now . However , the fact that the company has been headhunting for experts from Swiss watchmakers and managed to entice away the sales director of Tag Heuer indicates that its reticence was merely superficial . " The word is that production has already started in Asia , " comments Robert Weiss , owner of the consulting firm that bears his name in Männedorf , near Zurich . As a computer specialist and innovation consultant , Weiss has his finger on the pulse of the industry , and he is confident that Apple will score a big hit . He believes that the key to this success will be the products that the company already has on the market . " The Apple watch will make sense only if it docks with the iPhone . The matter of compatibility with the devices that potential buyers already own is crucial , " explains Weiss . Health will certainly be a key issue : " The announcement of iOS 8 showed that Apple is placing a great deal of emphasis on health functions . " Uwe Neumann , analyst and telecommunications expert at Credit Suisse , reports that discussions have already taken place between Apple and the United States Food and Drug Administration . " The vision is that one day you will be able to buy the iWatch on prescription , because you can use it to measure your blood pressure , for example . " Apple need not worry about the fact that Swatch has announced a fitness watch for 2015 , stresses Neumann . " Apple 's watch is not a watch in the conventional sense , but rather an addition to the ecosystem built up around other devices ; a kind of communication center . Integration of the Siri voice-activated software , for example , would be very interesting . Swatch ca n't keep up with that . " Given that fact , IT expert Robert Weiss is astonished that despite discussions with Apple , the Swatch Group wants nothing to do with any partnership . He believes that a shared path would have been positive for both companies . " The Swatch Group would have been able to help Apple in matters of production technology . It has enormous expertise in this sector , such as in respect of water resistance and robustness of glass and housings . Apple naturally wanted to tap into that , but Swatch boss Nick Hayek graciously declined . " For Hayek , the fitness Swatch is probably no less than a form of prestige project . It is intended to show that the Swatch Group remains innovative and is ready for a new gadget war , as Pierre-Yves Donzé , professor of economics at the University of Kyoto in Japan and originally from Neuchâtel , recently explained to the Berner Zeitung . Even luxury conglomerate LVMH ( Moët Hennessy - Louis Vuitton S.A. ) does not intend to ignore the new product entirely . " With regard to the smartwatch issue , we must find our own suitable means of access , " as Jean-Claude Biver , board chairman of watch brand Hublot , is quoted as saying . Credit Suisse analyst Neumann does not think that the Apple watch can or should stand alone . He believes that the company has both a technical and a financial interest in the interaction between its products already on the market , such as the iPad or iPhone , and the anticipated smartwatch . " The watch is highly likely to offer an incentive to buy other Apple devices , and vice versa . Or , to put it another way , if you have only the iWatch , you wo n't get much satisfaction out of it . " Robert Weiss agrees with him : " Previous smartwatches have suffered from inadequate integration . If I do n't have any apps to go with it , the product will have a hard time . It needs to be integrated in the technical environment that encompasses the hardware , software , and services in equal measure . Apple already has a lot of content in the background that it will expand for the smartwatch / iPhone combination . " In spite of everything , Credit Suisse analyst Neumann does not rule out the possibility that the iWatch will initially enter the market in the form of a slimmed-down and therefore cheaper version . " I can imagine a product that 's not yet fully mature and that you can use only to do fairly simple things , such as receive emails from your linked iPhone . In terms of price , it would probably be somewhere between USD 150 and 200 . A truly mature product would eventually cost in the region of USD 350 . " Based on Neumann 's cost estimate , we can infer that Apple 's plans will affect the watch sector in the low- and medium-price segments at most . " There could be a certain amount of crowding-out in this sector . Manufacturers of fitness wearables , such as Polar , will likely be hit harder . However , we believe that a much larger new market can be created . It is a matter of winning over people who do n't currently wear a watch at all . That being the case , watchmakers do n't necessarily need to bundle up just yet . " The luxury watch industry , which is so significant for Switzerland , sells a completely different type of product anyway . " The appeal of watches of this nature lies in their durability and stable value , which an Apple product cannot offer due to its technical orientation . They also captivate people through their design . They are items of quality jewelry . By contrast , you cannot demand USD 10,000 for something that you have to replace every two years , as is the case with smartphones . " However , Apple leads the electronics and technology market when it comes to design , and this is likely to be a crucial competitive advantage , according to IT expert Robert Weiss . " For a long time , Apple has been making its products out of metal , whereas its competitor Samsung , for example , is still using plastic . " And finally , Apple has a major trump card to play : " Advertising will not be necessary for the iWatch . That much is evident from the fact that there is already so much talk about a product that is not even on the market yet . "
. In other words , they ca n't think properly . With too little sleep , people start driving the waking day with stimulants like caffeine . As a result of that , when they try to sleep at the end of the day , they often ca n't . At that point , they may take alcohol or sleeping tablets to induce sedation , which does n't allow the most important biological process of sleep to take place . Just because you are n't conscious does n't mean you 're getting all the benefits of real sleep . Interpersonal skills also fall apart with too little sleep . Tired , sleepy people tend not to be empathetic . With sustained sleep deprivation , too , people can get depressed . After all , how does your body override the urge to sleep ? It activates the stress axis . Sustained stress also suppresses the immune system , leaving you more susceptible to infection , Type-2 diabetes , cardiovascular disease and even cancer ­ - a finding for which there is good evidence in studies of nurses who work the night shift . A lack of sleep also increases your risk of weight gain and obesity . Sleepy people have more ghrelin , the so-called " hunger hormone " , so they 're more likely to eat carbs - particularly sugars . And it only gets worse : the older you get , the more vulnerable you are to the health impacts of sleep deprivation . There is a lot of individual variation in how much sleep people need . But sometimes , people who claim they do n't need much sleep are simply too tired to discern that they 're sleepy ! This has been shown in nighttime taxi drivers , who claim not to be tired when they 're actually suffering the effects of massive sleep loss . It 's a critical issue - night-shift workers are often impaired without knowing it . People 's individual sleep cycles vary . If I were trying to figure out someone 's individual body clock timing , I would ask : " What happens on your free days ? What time do you get up without an alarm clock ? Does your sleep pattern change markedly when you 're on vacation ? " Many people change their sleep habits on holiday , and the schedule they follow at those times is a better reflection of their true individual sleep-wake cycle . Sleep patterns also change as we age . Once we get past the age of 10 , we tend to go to bed later and later . We start becoming night owls in the teen years , though the average female will never stay up as late as the average male . Then there 's a slow reversal , so that by the time you reach 55 , you are back to the wake-and-sleep times that you experienced just before puberty - around age 12 . Some of these changes seem to be driven by sex hormones , which rise and fall over time . But in general , younger people are late night types , and older people are morning types . The human body clock works on a cycle of about 24.5 hours , so we need to align the internal clock to the external world by about half an hour each day . Light is critical to that process . If a person went into a cave that had constant darkness and temperature , he or she would still fall into a regular rhythm of sleeping and waking , but would get up and go to bed slightly later each day because of that extra half-hour in the internal cycle . The classic mismatch between our internal clock and external time is called jet lag . We eventually get over jet lag as the light in a new time zone re-sets our internal clocks . But the reason we feel so awful in the meantime is that during the adjustment , all the different clocks in the body - the ones in the brain , liver and stomach , for example - are slightly out of sync . They all realign eventually , but it takes about a day for every time zone you cross . If you 're traveling west , it 's easier : You can adapt faster to an expanding day . Trying to adapt to a contracting day when you go east is more difficult . So here 's my simple advice : Seek out morning light whenever you can when you 're traveling west . But if you 're traveling more than six or seven time zones east , you need to avoid morning light at your destination for three days and seek out afternoon light instead . Lots of people take melatonin , but its actual impact on our biology is poorly understood . Melatonin is a biological marker of nighttime , meaning it is produced when it 's dark . So , it could be that sending your body this " dark signal " in pill form augments the light signal detected by the eyes and speeds up the resetting effects light has on your body clocks . But we have n't shown that definitively yet . One thing we do know is that about 70 percent of people will fall asleep more quickly if they take 3 milligrams of melatonin , which makes it easier to sleep in a new time zone . Of course , one should always talk to a doctor before doing that . We published some of our recent findings in the journal " Cell " a month ago . We were trying to figure out why it takes so long to adjust to a new light-dark cycle . Why , for example , does it take an extra day to recover for each time zone crossed - why does n't your body make a more immediate adjustment ? In the paper , we described a new pathway that limits the effects of light on the molecular clock . When we greatly reduced the amount of a key protein in that pathway in a group of mice and shifted the light cycle they were exposed to by six hours , their internal clocks adapted after a day , rather than six days . Since the human clock is very similar to the mouse clock , this pathway could be used to develop pharmacological agents that speed up the resetting process . We 're already working on drugs that can shift the internal clock in humans - and not just for jetlag . Drugs like these have the potential to help people with poorly adjusted inner clocks , a phenomenon we find in many conditions , including mental illnesses such as schizophrenia . As a society , we 're not going to put the 24/7 genie back in the lamp and start living without electric lights . But people should know that sleeping less makes them more susceptible to health problems . For example , our ability to process food , particularly glucose and fats , is not as effective at night . So , we know that people who work night shift are susceptible to obesity , and that tendency is made worse by the type of food that 's usually available during those shifts . You ca n't do much about your work schedule , but night-shift workers could adjust their eating habits by sticking to small , easy-to-digest portions of foods with relatively high protein , low carbs and low fat . Something calming and easy for the system to process . Most of all , I want people to think about sleep more seriously . We spend around 36 percent of our lives asleep . It 's our single most important behavior , and a lot of really important stuff is going on in the brain while we sleep . If you make getting enough sleep a priority , you 'll perform better at work and in your relationships , and you will be less likely to get sick . Exactly . The idea that sleep is a waste of time is relatively recent . If you look at the early scientific literature - even into the 19th century - people embraced sleep . The turning point came with the invention of the electric light bulb . Thomas Edison said sleep was a criminal waste of time and a throwback to our cave days , and that attitude persists today . As a species , we are incredibly arrogant , but we ca n't abandon our embedded biology . Margaret Thatcher famously said sleep is for wimps . She was wrong .
of deciding who was in the line-up , I obviously made sure the team would fit well together . That is an essential for being able to perform well . And then , of course , I stick to my leadership principles : for example , teach respect , which is very important . Credibility , solidarity toward one another - that 's what every single player needs to put into action , and what I demand as the team 's role model . This is to ensure we can then concentrate on what matters , on our sporting objectives , including qualifying for the Round of 16 . Michael Strobaek : That 's right . For us , the game starts all over again every day . But we also need to have a strategy , otherwise we 'll very quickly lose our game . For me and for us , it 's also true that the stronger the team you 've got , the greater the likelihood you have of winning . But in our case the fact is that your opponent does n't always behave in a rational manner - things can change . We always need to try and keep a level head , maintain a certain discipline and a systematic approach ; if we think our opponent is seeing things in slightly the wrong way , however , we respond accordingly . Because when we 're winning someone else is actually losing . And that always means keeping your eye on the ball , not the man , and understanding that sustainability and discipline are an important factor for lasting success in our game . Ottmar Hitzfeld : I 've always had the same management philosophy as coach . I started out 30 years ago with Sportclub Zug , in the Swiss second league . I actually managed my team in the same way that I currently manage the Swiss national side and used to manage Bayern Munich , where the focus is on respect . Management of my team - and leadership skills - was always enormously important to me . Because I 've got to be recognized as the leader , I have to be honest and I have to be consistent . I 've got to be credible , I 've also got to be loyal during times of crisis , not just look for scapegoats , and always stand behind my team . Solidarity is also important to me , as is integrity . Integrity obviously means leading by example , in all situations . I think that 's very important when you 're the leader of a team . With respect to the football itself , the technical expertise : I think it goes without saying that this is something everyone who 's involved in football must be able to deal with - as is the psychological ability . It 's not just about having your own team but about having an opponent , too . We need to think about what our opponent has in store , what strategy they 've got , adjust to their strengths and weaknesses , and then act accordingly . Michael Strobaek : Unlike football and a football team , I 'm a player-coach because I also have to be out on the pitch every day . Together with the team , I 've often got to decide - sometimes quickly , sometimes not so quickly - about the direction we want to go in and where we see the opportunities . The fact is that the business we manage frequently forces us to look at things from the opposite perspective . For example , that means you 've actually got to exploit crises - not run away from them , but actually use them as a buying opportunity . Alternatively , it means you need to exit a market just as everyone else is moving in. That 's what 's special about the business world : what goes up must one day come back down . Getting that right is ultimately one of the real successes you can have as a chief investment officer . The second key to success , as I mentioned earlier , is the discipline to approach things in a way where you 're led not by your emotions but by rational thought and decision-making processes . Ottmar Hitzfeld : I think the coach can still have a major influence , including through substitutes . The coach can make tactical adjustments , he can ratchet up the pressure , he can play more of a counter-attacking game where the team stands back . I can still influence that from the bench . I 've got influence during the half-time break , I can speak to my team again , I can motivate my team again , I can give them another confidence boost . People often say the coach has given the team a dressing-down at half-time , that he 's given them verbal abuse and criticized them - the opposite of what I do , really . My view is that when you 're dealing with people you need to support them , to help them - even when things are going badly . That 's when the coach is needed . And I can play with one striker , with two or three strikers . In other words , I still have tactical options . That 's why I can still have an influence during the game . Michael Strobaek : I always try to involve the team in decisions and ask everyone what they really think . Sometimes people within a team do n't agree and it takes an umpire to say we need to do A or B. Ultimately I 'm the one who does that . Because at the end of the day - just like Mr. Hitzfeld - I 'm the one who 's responsible for a good or a bad result . Ottmar Hitzfeld : Our objective as the Swiss national team is completely clear : it 's to survive the group stages and get through to the last 16 . We do n't have easy opponents in the shape of Ecuador , Honduras and France , but it 's do-able . And if we get through to the second round , we may well surprise . After that , who knows - the sky 's the limit . Ottmar Hitzfeld : For me , the big favorite is Brazil . They 've got a fantastic team and an experienced , outstanding coach ; they also have some obvious advantages given the climate in Brazil , which can also impact on the team 's performance . Michael Strobaek : I hope and believe Switzerland will get through to the final 16 . It would be a great result for this country . Unfortunately , I 've got to say there 's a consensus between Mr. Hitzfeld and I , because I too think Brazil will win - they will be very hard to beat . Ottmar Hitzfeld : I think the last time Spain were at the very top of their game was in Euro 2012 . What 's more , the team has aged slightly and Spain in particular play a complex game . The fact is we only ever see the technical side of things , but the Spaniards also run more than anyone else , and that consumes energy . In Brazil , given the temperatures , and the climate - that will be very difficult .
n't do anything different . I try to put myself in the composer 's shoes , to interpret and communicate like a translator . Nowadays , everything we do is quick and often without thinking . You do something in a hurry and move on quickly to the next thing . That 's how we live today . The need for people to slow things down again and take a break has never been as great as it is today . We crave a slower pace of life . That is why , today , there are so many museums , days of remembrance , history books , and old music being played . Our view of memories , history , and classical music is rather archaic . As the counterpoint to our frantic world , we have created a world of nostalgia that we coddle too much . For example , Beethoven is not just some ghost from the past . He is part of our everyday lives . The songs of yesterday , today , and tomorrow always meet up with songs from hundreds of years ago . At the Festival , you can feel how these two worlds collide . The purpose is for the audience to ask : Was that music from the Middle Ages or today ? Was it by Mozart or Beethoven ? The program is meant to bewilder listeners in a positive way as well as motivate them to ponder and reflect on it . On the train from Landquart to Davos , there are six places where you can press the button to request a stop . I did that once , and I was the only person who got off . I found that sensational ! In every work , there is a pause , and that is precisely where the most spectacular things always happen . For that reason , the Festival offers concerts that allow people to come and go as they please . The international musicians and ensembles , be it the Chamber Choir , Davos School of Music , or the Swiss Army Band , provide additional " stops . " Requesting a stop means being willing to take a break and be surprised . The Swiss Army Band is playing with Finnish director Dalia Stasevska , cellist Nicolas Altstaedt and pianist Friedrich Gulda . We owe the opportunity to see the merging of these worlds to Ueli Maurer . Soldiers guard the WEF in Davos each year . I wrote a letter to the Minister of Defense and asked him to safeguard something that is seriously endangered : namely careful study and discernment through listening . The army needs to protect that , too . He wrote back and promised to send 120 soldiers in the form of musicians from the Swiss Army Band . Being young means being carefree , original , and fresh , but also unreflective . That 's why I want to combine young and old . The concerts are meant to be a unique experience for both the audience and the musicians . The festival is intended to provide a forum , inspiration , or simply an opportunity to escape for a little while . Besides , what does it even mean to " be young ? " The Armenian composer Tigran Mansurian , for example , conveys through his music more youth than virtually anyone else . Davos was merely the beginning . I was a student , and though I already had some talent , I was also a little out of my league at that Festival . I found myself confronted with musicians who were much better than I was . They were more insightful and asked questions I had never thought of . However , I got over it and came to realize that everything was part of a collective world . As artistic and creative director , I want to take that thought and carry it further , bringing together people with open minds and continuing the cycle . " Living Room " by American composer John Cage . That is the first piece that will be played at the Festival . Everything possible will happen in that " living room . " I see Davos as one big living room with its doors wide open . For the Festival , we are going to create a living room where people can meet and the " Night Shifts " ( Nach(t)schichten ) portion of the program will take place . Most things always happen before and after a concert , when people discuss and reflect . I want the listeners to get incredibly bored . For most people , " boredom " has a negative connotation . When people are bored , time passes slowly , and that is the most amazing thing that can happen to them .
result of slower employment growth . However , one potential driver of the super-cycle remains in place , even if its impact has weakened : Interest rates will stay at zero for the coming year . Since the European Central Bank ( ECB ) will have to embark on a more expansionary course if it wants to combat the risk of deflation , Credit Suisse economists believe the SNB will maintain its zero interest rate policy in order to preserve the minimum EUR / CHF exchange rate of 1.20 . In view of the low rate of inflation in Switzerland ( 2014 : 0.1 percent ; 2015 : 0.5 percent ) and business cycle risks , there is no reason for the SNB to alter its monetary policy . Compared to the past two years when the growth rate was well over 2 percent , consumer growth has now lost much of its momentum . Credit Suisse economists are predicting growth of 1.2 percent for this year and 1.0 percent for 2015 . They believe that various factors have contributed to the slowdown in consumer growth . The market for consumer durables is , for example , becoming saturated , and the number of new consumers is declining as a result of slower immigration . In addition , the period in which price discounts were being driven by exchange rate appreciation is over , and the distortions caused by the restructuring of hospital financing - which inflated the figures for the growth in healthcare consumption in 2013 - are disappearing . The economists also predict lower levels of capital spending in 2014 and 2015 ( forecasts for capital spending on machinery and equipment stand at 1.0 percent and 2.0 percent for 2014 and 2015 , respectively ) , a trend that can be attributed to subdued demand for exports . Capital spending on new construction also looks likely to fall from 3.5 percent this year to 1.0 percent in 2015 in response to the general slowdown in construction demand and reduced capacity expansion in the construction sector . The low propensity to invest is due , to a small extent , to the approval of the initiative against mass immigration . According to a survey of purchasing managers carried out by procure.ch ( the trade association for procurement and supply management in Switzerland ) in conjunction with Credit Suisse , 10 percent of Swiss companies intend to increase their level of capital spending outside Switzerland due to the change in the operating environment . However , the large majority of companies have made no change to their capital spending plans . Three-quarters of companies also assume that Switzerland will find a solution with the European Union ( EU ) and that the bilateral agreements will therefore remain in force after February 9 , 2017 . In view of the sluggish recovery in the euro zone and the depressed investment climate , the recovery of the Swiss export sector is likely to be too modest to compensate for the loss of momentum in the domestic economy . Credit Suisse economists are predicting export growth of 5.0 percent in the coming year , after 3.0 percent in 2014 . More than half of Swiss export revenues are generated in the EU . The German federal state of Baden-Württemberg alone imports more Swiss goods than China and Hong Kong together . This is just one example to illustrate the close ties between Switzerland and the EU . This relationship is one of the main areas examined in ' Monitor Switzerland ' , which was recently published by Credit Suisse economists . The latest issue of this publication also shows that Swiss exporters have benefited more from the bilateral agreements than the EU has . The slowing of the super-cycle in China and other emerging economies and the question which of these countries are best placed to return to sustainable economic growth is another core topic covered in ' Monitor Switzerland ' . An analysis of global demographic trends shows that many countries - especially China but also nations such as Germany - are now facing the possibility of a ' Japanese scenario ' with a declining population . According to a simulation carried out by Credit Suisse economists , economic growth in Switzerland will also be jeopardized in the long term if there is no immigration . If there is no change in labor force participation and no immigration , the working population will start to decline as early as 2017 . The increased mobilization of the working potential of women and older employees would merely postpone the downward trend for about five years . Economic growth in Switzerland would continue to decline significantly and , in a little over 10 years , the result could be economic stagnation . The latest issue of ' Monitor Switzerland ' also shows how the fiscal importance of expenditure-based taxation varies between cantons and highlights the sectors in which the greatest number of bankruptcies can be expected . Forecasts for the real estate market and a commentary on the concept of an extended Free Trade Agreement with the EU complete the range of topics discussed in ' Monitor Switzerland ' . ' Monitor Switzerland ' is published quarterly . The next issue will appear on December 11 , 2014 . Further information , a table of forecasts , and the publication " Monitor Switzerland " are available at : www.credit-suisse.com/research ( Economy )
began to take market share from CDs , the impractical vinyl format seemed destined to become a relic , if not actually extinct . Yet fast forward to 2014 , and one can walk into a major media entertainment store and be greeted by signs boasting " We Carry Vinyl ! " The LP , in other words , is in the midst of an unlikely comeback . Bucking the trend towards technologically driven music consumption , vinyl has posted eight consecutive years of sales growth in the US , and sales were up 46 percent in the first eight months of 2014 compared to last year , according to Nielsen SoundScan , compared to a 19 percent decline in CD sales . And as of August , Jack White 's new album " Lazaretto " became the best-selling vinyl record since Pearl Jam 's " Vitalogy " in 1994 , selling a total of 67,000 vinyl copies , a full 25 percent of its total US sales . All that said , at just 6.5 percent the size of the CD market - the actual number of LPs sold through August just 5.6 million - the vinyl market remains much too small to come close to offsetting the music industry 's well-documented woes . Even digital sales are down . Online purchases of music fell for the first time ever in 2013 in the face of a sharp increase in streaming sales , and have fallen 13 percent this year through August , according to Nielsen . Which brings us to the irony of it all : vinyl - poor , beleaguered vinyl - has become a crucial and unexpected ally for artists and retailers looking to boost revenue in a challenging market . Thanks in large part to LPs , independent record stores - the likes of Brooklyn 's Permanent Records and San Francisco 's Amoeba Music - are no longer hanging on for dear life like they were when the CD fell out of favor , says to David Bakula , a senior vice president at Nielsen . Indeed , he says , indie music stores are selling about two-thirds of total vinyl in the US LP sales have also gotten a huge boost from Record Store Day , an annual event music stores use to celebrate vinyl , promote themselves , and put out special releases . Not to be left out , larger stores such as f.y . e . are pushing vinyl , and big box retailer Target is selling turntables . Artists are helping push vinyl too , and for reasons other than nostalgia . Bands can charge more for a physical record than a digital sale , and they can also link vinyl sales with special releases and promotions that stimulate the fan base . The vinyl market is n't even relying only on classic rock bands that became famous when LPs were king . Top sellers this year include the Arctic Monkeys , Beck , The Black Keys and Lana Del Rey . Nearly every major label is putting out a vinyl version of new releases , something that has n't happened since the 90s . In the final analysis , though , it 's consumers that are driving the trend . Audiophiles finally seem to have gotten their message through to others that the vinyl offers an undeniably richer sound than the data-compressed audio formats used in today 's portable music players , such as mp3 and m4a . And mainstream music buyers also seem to want some of the old pleasures of owning a record collection back again , including the enjoyment of artistic album packaging , which gets lost when streaming or purchasing from iTunes . " People are once again engaged not just in the medium but also the content and the packaging , " says Bakula . " And nothing beats the sound of vinyl . " This article has originally appeard in The Financialist .
percent above trend in EM . China 's structural position has worsened since the 90 's and the growth of EM 's working age population has dropped to 1 percent from 2 percent in the 90 's . As a result , there is generally little spare capacity in EM labor markets . Strategically , EM should be bought when their currency and equity markets are cheap , if commodities are likely to outperform the cycle , and if they are addressing their fundamental problems such as excess private sector leverage and abnormally low levels of unemployment , Garthwaite said . " Frankly , the way to address these two ( latter ) problems is to have a period of below trend growth . " Tactically , there are currently only two buy signals : hedge fund exposure to EM , which dropped to a 3-year low in March ; and EM funds , whose outflows are close to a 12-year high . All other seven tactical indicators , including earnings momentum , relative economic momentum , EM government yields and price momentum , are neutral . In a nutshell , neither strategic nor tactical indicators currently speak in favor of buying EM . " The market consensus is underestimating that not everything looks much better in EM than during the last EM crisis in the late ' 90s . Some individual countries may nevertheless be of interest , " Garthwaite said . He singled out Taiwan ( the most interesting technically ) , China ( a cheap market , but with high risks ) , Korea , as well as Poland , Hungary and the Czech Republic ( CE3 ) . India ranks in the middle and is potentially the most interesting large market , as a commodity importer that has strong structural growth drivers , such as favorable demographics and a low rate of urbanization . India also ranks first in Credit Suisse 's EM consumer scorecard . Credit Suisse Research InstituteThe Emerging Consumer in 2014 : A Reversal of FortunesEmerging Consumer Survey : Download the 2014 ReportIndian Election Result Should n't Affect Economy Much Findings of the recent Credit Suisse Global Investment Returns Yearbook indicate that the characteristics of EM have changed over the past 7 to 8 years . " We 've seen far fewer EM crises in the last decade . EM have become less volatile related to developed markets ( DM ) and are more tightly correlated to each other as well as to DM . They 've become less risky , " said Michael O'Sullivan , CIO UK & EEMEA for Credit Suisse 's Private Banking & Wealth Management division . The average volatility of returns is now close to 26 percent , down from 40 percent in 2000 . For those wanting to diversify a DM equity portfolio , Brazil , India and Russia have a relatively low correlation to DM . " The strategies that tend to work best with EM - based on 120 years of data analyzed by Credit Suisse - are to buy on cheap valuations . The highest subsequent returns tend to be produced when dividend yields are high and price / earnings ratios ( P/ E ) low . The second best strategy is to buy EM on currency weakness or recent GDP weakness , " O'Sullivan advised . " Over the next decade , we 'll probably see EM commanding some small premium over DM . " Latin American growth has disappointed , being closer to that of DM than EM , said Stefano Natella , Global Head of Equity Research for Credit Suisse 's Investment Banking division . " The Achilles ' heal of the region is the under investment in both tangible infrastructure ( such as roads ) and intangible infrastructure ( such as innovation and human capital ) , " Natella said . The region 's average total investment in infrastructure amounted to only 2 percent of GDP in the last decade , less than half of the minimum required to sustain growth of 4.5 percent . In recent years , Latin American countries have begun to address the issue by setting up long-term strategic plans to solve the lack of adequate infrastructure , Natella noted . At the same time , private consumption is booming in Latin America , particularly in Mexico and Brazil . " Consumption has been driven by the rise of the middle-income class , which will represent more than two-fifths of the Latin American population by 2030 , up from just over a third in 2009 , " he added . The formalization of the region 's economy , with more workers being registered , is another factor behind the strong consumption . The make-up of the emerging consumer differs markedly across countries and within them , said Richard Kersley , Head of Global Equity Research Product for Credit Suisse 's Investment Banking division , referring to findings from the bank 's annual Emerging Consumer Survey , which polls 16,000 people from the nine largest EM . " The two largest markets , China and India are very different . China records a wide range of incomes , while India mostly has low-income consumers . The majority of EM consumers are still very poor , but the emergence of a middle class is worth underlining , with around 60 million households having entered this income bracket since the end of 2010 - mostly in Brazil , " Kersley said . Furthermore , income growth expectations in rural communities now exceed those in urban communities . " In India , car registrations are higher in rural areas than in urban , so is monthly expenditure on mobile connections , " Kersley explained . EM consumers are also young . " In a seven of the nine countries polled , the 18-29 year olds earn more than the 56-65 year olds , and these age groups spend their money differently , " he added . Around half of the Frontier Market ( FM ) indices are made up of the Gulf States , a region where the risk appetite is very strong . " The Gulf is the key driver behind this theme , " Kersley said . " FM are where EM were 20 years ago and offer that kind of growth trajectory going forward . As investors seek growth , FM become increasingly attractive , " O'Sullivan added . " But valuations are n't particularly attractive and liquidity is an issue in FM , " he warned . Giles Keating , Head of Research for Private Banking & Wealth Management and Deputy Global Chief Investment Officer , moderated the conference call .
beef and her phone back in her bag . Next , please ? A green sign hangs on the wall behind the cashier . What it says is something Kenyans have come to take for granted , though the rest of the world still considers it revolutionary : the shop offers the cashless M-Pesa service , a money transfer system that works from one mobile device to another and is operated by Safaricom , the leading cell phone company in Kenya . " M " stands for " mobile , " while " pesa " means " money " in Swahili , the country 's second national language . Thanks to M-Pesa , paying for purchases , a ride or a service using a cell phone is easier today in an East African village than in major cities such as New York , Rio , Hong Kong or Zurich . M-Pesa is the world 's most successful electronic payment system . A global success , from Africa . It all started eight years ago - because of the family members who stayed home . As in most countries in sub-Saharan Africa , most of Kenya 's population are farmers who live on the land . Young people in search of an education and jobs are drawn to the cities . If those earning money in the city wanted to support their parents financially , they long had to rely on uncertain and risky methods . They could send cash with a neighbor or a bus driver who happened to be driving through their village . Or they could send a postal money order , but that could take weeks , often failed to arrive , and in any case was possible only if the recipient had a post office box . This was about as unlikely as having a bank account . At the time , in 2007 , several million Kenyans owned a cell phone with a Safaricom number . Then this phone number essentially became a virtual bank account number . Starting in March of that year , Safaricom customers could upload money to their cell phone and send it to other Safaricom customers . It arrived within minutes , and the recipient was informed with a text message . The money could be forwarded or received as cash from an M-Pesa agent . Two weeks after introducing the service , Safaricom had nearly 20,000 active M-Pesa users . After seven months , there were one million . Today , 20 million customers in Kenya are registered . More than 83,000 agents in cities and rural areas assist customers in uploading , sending and receiving money . Rural Kenyans with no banking options leaped from the agricultural age straight into the digital tomorrow . And transferring money from one cell phone to another was only the start . Today , users can pay their electricity and water bills , get cash from an ATM , buy airline tickets , add phone time , buy concert tickets , pay the taxi driver or butcher and take out a small loan , perhaps to purchase a solar panel that brings electricity to their home for the first time . Not least , M-Pesa encourages saving . In cooperation with Safaricom , the Commercial Bank of Africa offers savings accounts , paying 2 percent interest for amounts up to the equivalent of 100 Swiss francs . Accounts equivalent to more than 500 Swiss francs even earn 5 percent . Many people are earning interest for the first time in their lives . It is no exaggeration to say that Kenya 's economy depends on M-Pesa . According to the Central Bank of Kenya , the value of all transactions between June 2013 and June 2014 represented 39 percent of the country 's GDP . M-Pesa moves more than one billion Swiss francs per year , and in fiscal year 2014 it earned the parent company 268 million francs , an increase of 21.6 percent over the previous year . This success is swiftly going global . M-Pesa has already been introduced in Tanzania , Egypt , Afghanistan and India , with Uganda , Zambia , Mozambique , Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of Congo soon to follow . The system has even arrived on the " old continent ; " in April of 2014 , Vodafone exported M-Pesa to Romania - as a test market for Europe . Safaricom estimates the user rate there as " in the hundreds of thousands , " without volunteering details . Vodafone , a British firm , owns 40 percent of Safaricom , and the Kenyan government owns 35 percent . As a strategy for the future , the company envisions cashless transactions for business customers as well . " I never go to the bank anymore , " declares Billy Warero . The 32-year-old works at a telecommunications company in Nairobi . Electric bill , cable TV , rent , online purchases and supermarket shopping - he does it all with M-Pesa . His paycheck still goes to his bank account , but he can also transfer that to his M-Pesa account using his cell phone . Even so , the banks are among the winners of this revolution . It took them a while to recognize the new business opportunities it afforded . At first , they fought the competition . Now they have come on board . After all , it is the banks that allow people to transfer money to an M-Pesa account , and the system 's savings and loan functions would also be impossible without the banks .
terms we think that China will have become the second largest consumer market overtaking Japan . Today the trade surplus in China is about 7 percent of the GDP . Which is about 150 billion Dollars . Overall they are importing about US$800bn but a significant proportion of that is inputs to manufactured goods industries which then re-export . The imports are skewed towards oil , mineral ores , components , intermediate goods and construction equipment . Some are high value-added manufactured goods like airplanes . Direct consumer product imports are quite small because many multinationals manufacture these into China to sell domestically . This is the case for mobile phone handsets and cosmetics for example . Obviously there are some luxury products that are imported . In our survey the LVMH Group ( Louis Vuitton Moët Hennessy " , the worlds largest luxury goods conglomerate ) is doing very well , for example and will almost certainly continue to do so . High End autos could also be among these products . We find that the German automakers like BMW are doing better in our survey this year than last year . There are two items on that wish list we should talk about : Travel , which is quite important . And the property market , which is certainly very alive . The data about travel and tourism in our survey is very interesting . 38 percent of our respondents have taken a holiday last year . Now , you must imagine that until quite recently in China most people have been working six days a week , taking off one or two days a year . Now there are national holiday weeks and we find that the average spend on a holiday is getting on to a month 's disposable income . And people are travelling domestically in China to a huge degree . Which makes things such as the hotel sector quite interesting . There are Internet based ticket agencies and domestic airlines that have been very successful . That is why China is buying so many Airbus and Boeing planes . And you also would say that the sector would formalize over time . There are no national two or three stars hotel chains in China now . At some stage they will either develop locally or companies like Accor or Intercontinental or Marriott will do that in China . Yes , they are . 12 percent want to take their next vacation abroad within the next year . Particularly to Europe and to the rest of South East Asia . Partly that is a visa issue . People can now travel as individuals to Hong Kong and Macau and on group visas to Europe . In case of Europe I think that France in particular has advertised its attractions within China . America is very low down on the priority of places to visit for Chinese people . The auto market continues to grow steadily . The problem is pricing power and weak brands . Volkswagen and also General Motors have not been doing that well in the market according to our survey respondents . Housing is a very important topic . We have got 60 percent of our respondents living in a property that they own themselves resulting from the mass privatization in the late 90s . No less than 18 percent are planning to buy a property in the next year . Either to trade up or to buy for the first time . Yes . Property is a very important part of Chinese consumer wealth . And they are quite unleveraged in the housing sector . Only about 10 percent of our respondents have any kind of a mortgage on their property . Yes , only 10 percent . The reason for that is that the state used to own all the property . It actually does own the free hold land . But property was privatized in the cities . People were effectively given a long lease on their apartment or house almost for free in the 1990s . And now , as people 's income goes up they are trying to trade up . There certainly are cultural influences that one can already see . Look at Hollywood movies . I have n't seen the new Mission Impossible III yet . But I gather a large part of it is set in Asia . The use of silk in fashion has increased quite heavily . The aesthetics in the way modern hotels are designed is increasingly Asian . And ultimately we will see some of these Chinese branded goods emerge with success in the western consumers markets . It is a two-way exchange , of course . But the influence of China will make itself noticeable in a lot more domains than just the economy .
because of massive foreign exchange purchases during the euro crisis . At nearly 525 billion francs ( as of the end of October 2014 ) , SNB 's balance sheet has now reached the level of 75 percent of gross domestic product . This is a record among OECD countries . Although the economic data points to deflationary rather than inflationary trends , this development is fueling concerns that the situation could lead to uncontrollable inflation . It is also feared that interventions in the financial markets and the influencing of interest rates and other financial market prices distort not only savings and investment decisions in the private sector , but also the distribution of income . How should these risks be dealt with ? It seems clear to us that the ( re)introduction of supposedly simple , mechanical rules for the behavior of central banks is not the answer . For example , the nostalgic sympathy for the gold standard as expressed in the rejected popular initiative " Save Our Swiss Gold " mistakenly considers that in times of crisis this limitation on the flexibility of central bank policy increases the instability of the economy rather than lessening it . The gold standard always had to be given up in times of crisis , and when it was temporarily reintroduced in the 1920s , it severely hampered the economic recovery . Central banks were equally ineffective in sticking to targets for quantities of money that were considered the recipe for success for several years after the inflationary period of the 1970s . Finally , the Taylor rule postulated in 1992 by the US economist John Taylor also failed . It required , for the achievement of a stable inflation target , a relatively mechanical lifting and lowering of the key interest rate , which was based on the rate of capacity utilization and the current rate of inflation . Although inflation in the phase prior to the crisis was stable and at a low level and there were only minor setbacks in the economy and financial markets , severe economic imbalances were nevertheless building up during this phase . Imbalances arose because financial institutions granted loans that no longer had any relation to the underlying capital or the growth potential of the economy . This resulted in leverage effects that led initially to a boom and then to a crash . In order to improve financial stability , the focus should therefore not be on the size of the balance sheets of central banks , but on the balance sheets of the entire financial system . The " full money initiative " offers a solution that we consider misguided . Signatures for this initiative are currently being collected in Switzerland . This initiative intends to prevent commercial banks from creating money ( liabilities side of the balance sheet ) by expanding their lending ( asset side ) , because under the initiative all assets would have to be financed by central bank money . As a result of the fact that under a full money system only the central bank could create money , the benefits of decentralized information and risk transformation systems , as brought about by competition between financial companies , would be nullified . It also seems naive to expect that this kind of limitation on banking activities would preclude future crises . The plan fails to recognize that " shadow banks " would fill the profitable gaps , perform lending and thereby create " money . " The appropriate response to the risk associated with lending and money creation by the banks is not an artificial narrowing of business opportunities for banks or other financial institutions , but primarily the route that has been taken - that of strengthening their capital base and therefore their responsibility for themselves . As shown in the report published at the end of 2014 by the Federal Council 's group of experts on the further development of financial market strategy , Switzerland has come a long way towards strengthening its financial stability . Such an approach is more useful than running the significant risk of full money reform with a very uncertain outcome . From a regulatory standpoint too , the full money initiative is problematic . It is obvious that the SNB would be more subject to political pressure to adjust money creation to suit every economic mood or situation than if the stability of the marketdriven banking system were strengthened . Such strengthening could also help to clarify the boundaries between the monetary authority 's and the financial regulator 's areas of responsibility , which have become increasingly blurred since the crisis ( keyword : macro-prudential measures ) . The concurrent blurring of boundaries between monetary and financial policy also increases the fear of inflation . If the central bank buys government bonds , it is de facto financing government deficits , while at the same time the depressed interest rates make it easier to refinance debt . And because , in addition to bond prices , the value of other assets is also rising , this policy could lead to the misallocation of capital ( keyword : speculative bubbles ) ; an additional effect that is exacerbating the debate . In our opinion , the correct response by regulatory policy to this mixing is based on two pillars : firstly , the strengthening of the independence of the central bank from politics , and secondly , the obligation of fiscal policy to maintain long-term fiscal stability . A good approach is the debt ceiling built into the Swiss Constitution , which should be extended to other areas such as financing of social welfare . As well as strengthening financial stability , this would noticeably reduce the pressure on monetary policy to solve every problem that comes along . A realistic view of debt dynamics in many industrialized countries , however , leads us to fear that this pressure might increase even more over the next few years .
have a surprisingly big impact - by buying stocks that trade every hour , say , as opposed to every minute . It could be both . You can create a risk factor from a liquidity premium . But I am rather thinking of something I call a " popularity " premium . The stocks that trade the most are the most popular . And those are the ones where there is mispricing because they get to be " too " popular , as measured for example by their heavy trading . Interestingly , our measures of stocks that trade less show lower volatility . So these stocks do n't really seem more risky . Therefore I do n't really like calling the extra return a risk premium . Well , first of all , bond markets are in the fortunate position of having yields to maturity that you can actually see . You know that if the bond does n't default , you 're going to get a specific return in that particular currency . And you know it in advance . In the equity market , you ca n't see the forward returns in the same way . You only see the result . And since returns themselves are very volatile , it 's hard to discern what the result really is . I 'm sure there is irrational behavior in the bond market , too . But yes , there is behavior in the equity market where essentially people are attracted to stocks that trade a lot . And they 'll pay more for them , just as you would do with brands in the consumer market . Consequently , the return structure is going to be different among the less popular and the more popular , and that leads to mispricing . Of course , you 're also going to see mispricings in the bond market , but they may be smaller and more visible , thus easier to take advantage of . In the equity markets , you can tell stories about the stock . And the stories can be very interesting . And you can pay a lot for them . There is more information in the bond market . It 's much more mathematical . The spreads are visible . People need a certain amount of liquidity . If you 're going to have a lot of illiquid assets , you also need some liquid assets to meet your liquidity needs . There 's a danger in going into too many illiquid assets , like real estate and infrastructure and private equity . Some of the universities , for example , did get into a bit of a squeeze in the financial crisis . They could not get very good prices for their private equity investments . One of the benefits of the kinds of stocks I 've been talking about is that they can easily be sold in any crisis without paying much of a discount at all . That 's an interesting argument . And , of course , there is evidence that overall stock market trends go in the opposite direction of what retail investors do : retail tends to sell after the crash and buy after the rise . So if retail investors were somehow prevented from overtrading , they might perform better . But the truth is that people want liquidity even though it sometimes leads them to take the wrong actions .
used , if at all , to replace previous ECB loans . Moreover , commercial banks in Northern Europe have little interest in the program because they can now borrow almost as cheaply in the market . Conversely , the weakness in demand for corporate credit in the Eurozone " periphery " limits these countries ' banks ' need for the ECB loans . The details of the ECB program are fairly complex because of the complicated structure of the Eurozone 's system of central banks and because political compromises had to be made , but overall the quantitative easing ( QE ) program looks like a potentially powerful one to us . Its key features are : Starting in March 2015 , the ECB intends to buy EUR 60 bn of assets per month until at least September 2016 . This would amount to approximately EUR 1140 bn for the total program , slightly above expectations . We estimate that about EUR 40 bn per month could flow into sovereign bonds , which approximates to total sovereign bond purchases of about EUR 760 bn , also above market expectations ; the latter had ranged between EUR 500 bn and 700 bn . The intended length of the program is also somewhat greater than expected . Moreover , the ECB indicated that QE could be extended beyond 2016 if it is necessary to bring inflation back on track toward the 2 percent targetPurchases across markets will be allocated according to the capital shares which the national central banks hold in the ECB ( capital key ) . This means that the Bundesbank , for instance , will buy a larger amount of bonds than the Banca d'Italia . Purchases will be undertaken by the national central banks , which are members of the Eurosystem.Generally , purchases will be limited to 25 percent of the outstanding debt of a particular issuance and 33 percent of particular issuer . Purchases will be made along a maturity range of 2-30 years.Apart from sovereign bonds , the national central banks can also buy bonds from supranational institutions or agencies . While this is less important , it still amounts to 12 percent of the additional purchases.There had been some discussion regarding the creditor status of the ECB relative to other holders of government bonds . The ECB has confirmed , however , that it will not have senior status . This is important because it prevents the credit quality of debt held by private investors from worsening as the ECB accumulates bonds.As expected , Greek bonds are excluded for the time being from the QE program because their credit quality is insufficient . Countries under an adjustment program will have to fulfill specific criteria.Apart from the purchase program , the ECB also reduced the interest rate charged on the targeted longer-term refinancing operations ( TLTRO ) by 10 basis points , effectively setting it equal to the main refinancing rate of 0.05 percent . The only feature of the QE program which had raised discussions regarding its robustness over the past week is the issue of so-called risk-sharing . Germany , in particular , had insisted that national central banks need to bear the risk of potential losses on their respective government 's bonds . The argument was that QE would otherwise breach the " no-bailout " clause . In reality , we do not think , however , that this feature seriously undermines the effectiveness of QE , as there are other mechanisms which reduce the risk of government default . First , the European Stability Mechanism ( ESM ) can act as backstop to governments and banks under a potential support program ; second , the ECB could , in principle , support individual governments , since the European Court of Justice recently indicated conditional support programs ( OMT ) as legal ; third , the TARGET2 system , which effectively allows central banks in EMU member states to borrow to an almost unlimited extent from each other , is a further key backstop . Various observers have argued that QE would not work in the Eurozone , in contrast to the USA or UK . We disagree . First , although bond yields in the Eurozone periphery have declined markedly , we think they could decline even further , and thereby lower overall borrowing costs . Second , by buying government bonds from banks and other investors , the latter should be enticed to invest elsewhere ( i.e. bank lending should also be enhanced ) . Third , bond purchases will not only support bond prices , but also translate into increases in other asset prices . This should , for example , make it more attractive for companies to raise equity capital , and it implies positive wealth effects for households . Real estate prices will likely also be supported . Finally , QE , which will expand the ECB 's balance sheet while other central banks , notably the Fed and the Bank of England , have halted their asset purchases , should weaken the euro , and thereby stimulate the competitiveness of Eurozone companies . Possibly of greatest importance , in our view , could be the effect on the confidence of European businesses and consumers . The launch of the QE program is a powerful signal that the Eurozone will indeed stay intact and that policymakers are finally doing " what is needed " to boost growth . Overall , we think QE adds another piece of the puzzle to an improving policy framework in the Eurozone . Fiscal consolidation has come a long way , even if actual deficits are still high due to the weak cyclical situation . This will allow governments to ease off further from austerity measures . Second , the European Banking Union has been launched , which reduces financial risks and may improve financial market integration . Efforts to move to a Capital Markets Union may gather steam as well ; QE should , in any case , reduce the perceived risks of cross-border investment . Finally , structural reforms continue to be implemented in all the Eurozone economies , including Italy and France , albeit hesitantly . Overall , this strengthens our view that the Eurozone will gradually emerge from stagnation , and that we may even see upside economic surprises . While our asset class experts will provide more details on the financial market and investment strategy implications of QE , we believe that it has essentially three impacts : first , QE will generally keep bond yields low for long , and to the extent that QE lowers default risks in the Eurozone , spreads of peripheral bonds should also stay tight . While overall expected returns are very low in most bond markets , the risk of major setbacks is therefore limited . That said , like in the case of the USA , our strategists expect longer-dated bonds , especially in Germany , to weaken somewhat as QE is actually launched ( " buy the rumor , sell the fact " ) . Second , QE should further weaken the EUR against other major currencies . Third , Eurozone equities should be supported by better growth and thus earnings prospects , low interest rates and a weaker EUR . On a sectoral basis , banks should benefit from QE as better domestic growth stimulates lending and reduces loan losses . Further beneficiaries are European exporters which will profit from a weaker EUR . Prime examples include the German automobile industry , which produces high-end cars exclusively in Germany and exports them all over the world . For Switzerland , QE is a mixed blessing . While the expected improvement in economic activity should be supportive , the risk is that the CHF stays very strong against the EUR or even appreciates further , at least temporarily . This would weaken exports and slow the economy . Finally , the implication of continued CHF strength is that negative inflation will persist in Switzerland . For the Swiss National Bank , this may well imply that it needs to intervene more heavily than expected in the foreign exchange markets to prevent excessive CHF appreciation ( in contrast to what was hoped for as the lower EUR bound was abandoned ) , or that interest rates will need to be lowered even further .
is not enough . They want to accumulate wealth in a responsible way and have become increasingly concerned about the social , environmental and ethical issues . Asset managers are therefore expected to demonstrate appropriate investment behavior by taking thoughtful decisions and actions . Naturally , one has to ask : Do the numbers add up ? In the Credit Suisse Global Investment Returns Yearbook 2015 , Elroy Dimson , Paul Marsh and Mike Staunton examine the topic of " vice " versus " responsible " investing . The study compares the performance of two contrasting funds : The Vice Fund ( recently renamed as the Barrier Fund ) and the Vanguard FTSE Social Index Fund . Both are US mutual funds and were launched in the early 2000s . The former invests in businesses considered to be socially questionable : tobacco , alcohol , gaming and defence / aerospace industries . The latter is composed of stocks of companies that have been screened for certain social , human rights and environmental criteria . Data gathered over a period of nearly 14 years shows that the Vice Fund performed better and is the winner of this comparison ( 10,000 US dollars growing from inception to 33,655 US dollars at start- 2015 ) . Although the Social Index Fund also recorded growth , its rate was lower ( 10,000 US dollars growing to 26,788 US dollars ) . The example of the Vice Fund and much of the evidence reviewed by the London Business School researchers suggest that investments in what are considered " unethical " stocks tend to outperform . According to Dan Ahrens , author of " Investing in Vice : The Recession Proof Portfolio of Booze , Bets , Bombs and Butts , " the rationale for " vice " investing and its success is that these companies have a steady demand for their goods and services , regardless of economic conditions . They operate globally , tend to be high-margin businesses and they are in industries with high entry barriers . Just to complete the picture , the researchers reached out to another unsettling study - one that investigates stock markets in countries characterized by corruption . The study concludes that better returns were generated from investments made in the countries generally considered most corrupt . It may seem surprising , but responsible investors may also contribute to the outperformance of " sin stocks . " As Elroy Dimson , Emeritus Professor of Finance , London Business School and Chairman of the Newton Centre for Endowment Asset Management at Cambridge University , indicates : " If a large enough proportion of investors avoids sin businesses , their share prices will be depressed , thereby offering the prospect of elevated returns to those less troubled by ethical considerations . " To get a long-term perspective at sin stocks ' performance , the Credit Suisse study had a closer look at over 100 years of tobacco industry data . It is worth mentioning that tobacco was not considered harmful until the 1950s and , for the first half of the 20th century , the industry 's status was neutral . However , once its negative impact became widely recognized , its status shifted from neutral to " sinful " and some investors started rejecting the tobacco business on ethical grounds . How did this affect the industry 's performance ? During the transition period , 1947-1965 , shares in the tobacco industry underperformed by 3 percent per year in the USA . Still , it was a temporary trend and the decades from the 1960s to the 2000s , when the health impact of tobacco was well known , saw tobacco companies outperforming comparable firms by over+ 3 percent per year . Despite this rather grim picture , there is some good news too . The London Business School researchers have evidence that responsible investing can be fruitful . For responsible investors , who still have a stake in companies deemed non-ethical , there are two options : " exit " and " voice . " Exit , meaning withdrawing from the investment relationship , can relate to companies , industries and even whole markets . This is a very radical step . Investors who choose to exit not only burn their investment bridges , but can also - unintentionally - positively contribute to performance of sin stocks , as described above . Voice , on the other hand , can be a very powerful tool . Investors can speak out in an attempt to improve corporate behavior . They may hold discussions with executives , send written communications , submit and vote on proxy proposals , and seek to influence regulators and standard setters . The authors of the Credit Suisse study are convinced that : " These activities are undertaken in the belief that responsible investors can guide management toward improved financial performance and / or enhanced social conditions for stakeholders and communities . " The California Public Employees ' Retirement System ( CalPERS ) is an example that has shown that the voice strategy can in many ways be more rewarding than exit . In 2002 , CalPERS blacklisted entire countries that fell short of a minimal threshold on factors such as political stability , democratic institutions , transparency , labor practices , corporate responsibility and disclosure . The results were costly : after four years of applying this policy , the losses on its emerging markets portfolio were over 400 mln US dollars . In 2007 CalPERS decided to switch to a principles-based approach and , instead of excluding entire markets , started carefully selecting companies in the developing world . It chose to use voice rather than exit within emerging markets , and embraced dialogue , engagement and shareholder activism . According to Credit Suisse 's report , engagement is not only socially responsible , but has also proven to be profitable . The researchers analyzed the post-engagement performance of investee companies over the course of one year after the engagement . While it is not surprising that successful actions resulted in material gains ( +7.1 percent ) , the conclusion that unsuccessful engagements did not do any harm to company value is extremely important and encourages responsible investing ( they were met with a neutral market reaction ) . The gathered evidence shows that responsible investing can pay , but it requires much more effort . If investors want to be rewarded financially , they have to do more than just buy shares in responsibly managed companies . Rather , engagement with the companies whose shares they own or wish to buy seems to be the right course of action . The authors of the Credit Suisse study advise that " to maximize the probability of success , asset owners might consider the ' washing machine ' strategy : buying non-responsible companies and turning them into more responsible businesses . " After they have been cleaned up , the shares may then be sold at a price that reflects the accomplishments of the activist . While it is not for everyone , such a strategy offers an interesting direction for responsible asset owners .
conditions in Switzerland as being conducive to success . The SMEs believe the factors infrastructure and employees / qualifications have a particularly positive influence on business success . However , the SMEs ' overall assessment of Switzerland as a business location has deteriorated slightly compared with the previous year . The appreciation of the Swiss franc since the abandonment of the EUR / CHF exchange-rate floor is having negative effects : By and large , SMEs view the impact of the economic environment and Switzerland 's international ties on their success this year as negative . Regulatory framework conditions are once again judged to be an impediment to success . In terms of the economic environment and regulation , many firms expect a further deterioration in future . In light of these views , the issue of easing the regulatory burden on businesses needs to move higher up the political agenda if Swiss SMEs ' chances of success are to be secured - particularly in a more troubled economic climate . 90 percent of the SMEs surveyed made investments between 2009 and 2014 , spending an average of 10 percent of their sales . Investment as a proportion of sales was highest in the case of service-sector companies ( 16 percent ) and the high-tech industry ( 10 percent ) , and lowest in retail ( 5 percent ) . Real estate was the biggest area of investment with a 47 percent share of the total , followed by equipment ( 42 percent ) . The survey also shows that real estate investment has gained importance for all sectors in the last six years . In particular , SMEs from the tourism and entertainment sectors , as well as the healthcare , education and social services sectors , were above-average investors in real estate ; high-tech industry , on the other hand , spent an above-average proportion on research and development . Just 6 percent of all SMEs surveyed invested abroad between 2009 and 2014 . The survey shows that SMEs believe the Swiss franc 's appreciation in January this year is likely to be more difficult to absorb than that seen in 2010/2011 . 40 percent of all SMEs surveyed expect sales and margins to fall following this year 's Swiss franc appreciation , with 30 percent anticipating a decline in competitiveness . SMEs in the industrial and retail sectors in particular are under strong pressure . Although 72 percent of the SMEs surveyed are sticking to their investment plans despite the strong Swiss franc , 20 percent are planning a reduction - and in the high-tech industry the figure is as high as 44 percent . According to the survey , those SMEs that are reducing their investment due to the stronger Swiss franc are more export-oriented than those SMEs whose investment is unchanged or increasing . In addition , SMEs that are planning a reduction in investment due to the strong Swiss franc are more likely to expect the currency 's appreciation to have a negative effect on sales , margins and competitiveness than the other SMEs . The results of the survey also show that diversification in the form of strategic interests and cooperation agreements to some extent alleviates the negative effect of Swiss franc appreciation on SME investment . In addition , the margins and competitiveness of Swiss SMEs that invested abroad between 2009 and 2014 are less frequently affected by the current strength of the Swiss franc compared to SMEs that only invested domestically . According to the survey , Swiss SMEs mainly use cash and traditional bank loans to finance investment . In the case of young businesses , non-bank loans also play an important role . In overall terms , the multi-year spell of low interest rates has provided only a moderate boost to SME investment activity : Nearly one-third of the SMEs questioned indicate that low interest rates between 2009 and 2014 had a positive effect on the level of investment ; more than 60 percent said they had no influence . One reason is likely to be the fact that uncertainty about the future course of the economy often plays a greater role than financing conditions when it comes to investment decisions . The situation appears slightly different in construction , which has benefited from low interest rates in two ways : As well as lowering firms ' own financing costs , low interest rates and the attendant cheaper mortgages have increased the demand for real estate and therefore construction services . For 73 percent of the SMEs surveyed , the replacement of outdated infrastructure was an important motive for investment in the 2009-2014 period - no other reason was more frequently cited as important . 65 percent of the SMEs described improved efficiency as an important reason to invest - and among the industrial SMEs surveyed it was the most frequently as important cited reason for investing . According to the survey , measures to boost efficiency and maintain competitiveness are likely to gain importance for Swiss SMEs in 2015 and 2016 . In line with the results regarding success factors , regulation is a big obstacle to investment for the SMEs surveyed : Around one-third of SME respondents stated that laws and regulations had severely hampered key investment projects in 2009 - 2014 . For more than one-quarter of the SMEs surveyed , economic and political uncertainty as well as the shortage of specialist skills were major obstacles to investment . A total of 58 percent of the SMEs were unable to execute substantial investment projects as planned between 2009 and 2014 ; this was due to insufficient demand , economic and political uncertainty , regulation , a shortage of specialist skills , or - if in significantly fewer cases - a lack of finance . A total of 23 percent of the SMEs in the survey stated they were satisfied with their investment activity as well as the sales and margins generated in the 2009-2014 period . The results of the survey show that these SMEs in particular invested more heavily in employee training and research and development than companies that were dissatisfied with either their investment activity , their sales or their margins . In addition , their investment activity was less frequently hampered by political and economic uncertainty . The success of Swiss SMEs is therefore founded on three key pillars : qualified employees , innovation and stability . According to the survey , SMEs are thoroughly aware of the crucial importance of human capital . Four-fifths of the SMEs surveyed have invested in the training of their staff in the past six years . While companies are able to influence the employees and innovation factors themselves , Credit Suisse economists would urge politicians in particular to improve stability and planning security for Swiss SMEs .
bore the brunt of higher savings pressure on public budgets , among other things . For the construction industry , however , 2014 was very lively thanks to continued low interest rates and extensive planning activities in the preceding years . Unlike the domestically focused service industries , the export industry picked up the pace , though to a lesser extent than expected and not across the board . 2015 began with a monetary policy shakeup . The franc appreciated greatly after the CHF / EUR exchange rate floor was lifted , thereby making Swiss products and services immediately more expensive versus their foreign counterparts . The export industry suddenly lost its ability to compete on price , and some companies suffered major book losses . However , the stronger franc will likely leave its mark on the domestic economy as well . Thus , for 2015 we expect the general economy will have much lower growth than in 2014 , and have revised our GDP growth forecast for Switzerland from 1.6 percent to 0.8 percent . However , with an average exchange rate to the euro of just over 1.00 , we do not expect a recession . Thus , the strong franc is likely to be the dominating , but not exclusive , topic for many industries this year . The exchange rate floor was lifted against the background of stagnant global economic recovery and a tailing-off in domestic momentum . The vote in favor of the mass immigration initiative in February 2014 still hangs like the Sword of Damocles over the bilateral agreements with the EU , which are critical for the economy , and the geopolitical risks still loom large at the start of 2015 . The new monetary policy 's reality is overshadowing other uncertainties and developments , however . Of Switzerland 's main industries , hospitality is likely to be the most affected by recent events . Switzerland as a vacation destination has become much pricier now , which will probably mean fewer hotel visits by foreign guests . Moreover , Swiss travelers will have more incentive to spend their vacations in another country . Because the cost basis is almost exclusively in francs , in part because wages account for a large portion of production costs , the industry has little chance to trim expenses . 2015 is likely to be a difficult year for most export sectors as well . The strong franc affects nearly all industries , though in different ways . The extent of the impact on an industry depends not only on export orientation but also on the margin level , the volume of products that are billed in foreign currencies , the percentage of costs that originate in Switzerland , and the customers ' price sensitivity . The mechanical and electrical engineering industry , which is strongly export-focused , is expected to react especially sensitively ; its growth track was a rocky one even before the franc appreciated again . Sales in the chemicals and pharmaceuticals industry are not likely to grow much year-on-year either , due to the exchange-rate effect , and the same applies to watch manufacturers . However , manufacturers of pharmaceuticals and watches should withstand the situation better than companies in other industrial sectors , because they can better absorb the appreciation by raising their margins . Given the exchange rate situation , the processing industry looks set to cut jobs in 2015 . The strong franc is likely to be a predominant issue for retailers as well in 2015 . We expect that shopping tourism , which was already at a high level , will be boosted and thus we believe that retail sales this year will be lower than in 2014 . This , in turn , will likely impede employment in the industry . Apart from the banks , the strong franc should have a comparatively low impact on most other service industries this year . We expect that , following some delay , the stronger franc will mean lower overall economic demand for workers . Combined with lower immigration , this will stunt demand for telecommunications and hospital services , for instance . However , we do not expect this effect to be noticeable before 2016 . Service providers and IT companies will see lower growth in sales and employment this year than in 2014 , because their finance and industrial customers ' consulting and IT budgets will be tight under the strong franc . However , both industries will still benefit from key trends such as increasing regulation , especially in the financial sector , and from rapid technological progress , which will force companies to make investments in productivity-boosting IT solutions . Individual sectors are currently subject not only to economic and exchange-rate related fluctuations , but also to structural factors and trends that have a medium and long-term impact . In this context , each year we create a medium-term opportunity-risk profile of the main Swiss sectors . One of the leading multi-sector trends included in this opportunity-risk profile is demographic change . Coupled with advances in medical technology , which are continually providing new diagnostic and treatment options , the aging population of the industrialized nations means a constant increase in demand for healthcare , nursing care , and support services , along with products from the pharmaceuticals and medical technology industries . Thus , these industries lead the pack in the opportunity-risk profile . Another sector with an above-average opportunity-risk profile is IT . The demand for IT services is driven by technological progress and the ongoing digitalization of the economy and society . The adaption processes of companies in relation to technological progress mean bigger order books for the IT and consulting industries . In this area , the rising number and complexity of regulations , along with stricter compliance requirements , are boosting demand .
. Looking at past cyclical downturns , the reactions of investment spending are typically more immediate and pronounced than those of private consumption . This pattern is likely going to be repeated , but probably in a less pronounced manner than in the case of global recessions . However , UK domestic demand will likely slow down , in our view , and even contract for a few quarters . The longer-term impact on the UK is highly dependent on future economic relations with the EU , but will most likely be negative as well , with potentially reduced trade access and labor market mobility weighing on investment , productivity and income . As regards the impact of Brexit on other major economies , we examine three main potential channels : 1 ) trade , 2 ) confidence , and 3 ) financial contagion . The UK is the world 's fifth largest importer , absorbing roughly 4 percent of world trade , and it is running a trade deficit which amounted to 7 percent of GDP last year . As a consequence of Brexit and the weaker GBP , we would expect overall UK import volumes to stagnate in the second half of the year , and to decline around 2 percent year-on-year in 2017 . The corresponding value of exports to the UK would probably drop even more , as most exporters would have to make price concessions due to the weaker GBP . This was also the case in the 2008-2009 recession . UK import volumes fell 15 percent , but the top ten trading partners suffered export declines to the UK ranging from 14 percent ( China ) to 31 percent ( Spain ) in local currency terms . While the magnitude of the declines would be less in the upcoming downturn , we would assume the country pattern would be similar to the last recession . Therefore , the " Brexit drag " on China and the USA is likely to turn out to be negligible . Both countries ' exports appear less vulnerable to a downturn in the UK and a weak GBP . In addition , exports to the UK only represent 0.5 percent and 0.3 percent of their GDP , respectively . In Europe , Ireland and Norway both have a significant trade exposure to the UK . However , Ireland mainly exports relatively inelastic pharmaceutical , food and agriculture products to the UK , and its nominal exports were thus among the less affected in the last recession . Norway 's mineral fuel exports are probably even more shielded from demand and currency effects ; the steep decline in the last recession mainly reflected the drop in commodity prices . All other European trading partners are likely to suffer more , and we would not be surprised to see export declines reaching the 5-10 percent range in countries such as Spain , Italy and France next year , though uncertainty surrounding such estimates is considerable . Even then , however , the direct negative effects on GDP of the European trading partners is likely to remain mild , and would probably fall within the 0.1-0.3 percentage points range , in our view . A second and potentially very powerful channel of contagion is via consumer and business confidence . Indeed , uncertainty over the longer-term prospects of the European Union are likely to increase with Brexit , although we think the view that Brexit marks the beginning of a disintegration of the EU is highly exaggerated . Conversely , it seems rather unrealistic to believe that the Brexit shock will lead to enhanced cohesion among the 27 remaining states . On balance , business sentiment and thus investment could be dampened due to this political development . Consumer sentiment might then also suffer in response to weaker corporate spending . Nevertheless , the question remains by how much policy uncertainty will effectively rise outside the UK as a result of the Brexit vote , and how strongly that will affect economic sentiment . It seems unlikely to us that countries outside Europe would be much affected . But even within Europe , policy uncertainty has only a limited effect on economic sentiment . A third channel by which the Brexit vote could impact the European economy , in particular , is via financial contagion . The Brexit vote has raised concerns that financial conditions might worsen in the European periphery . So far , the verdict in this regard is not clear : On the one hand , yield spreads of Italian and Spanish government bonds over those of Germany are back to pre-Brexit vote levels , after initially widening to some extent . In our view , this indicates that the markets believe in the ECB 's determination and ability to prevent a renewed sovereign debt crisis in the Eurozone . At the same time , refinancing conditions of many European banks have worsened sharply since the Brexit vote , with prices of their stocks and bonds dropping sharply . Concerns about a weakening economic outlook , as well as lower yields and a flatter yield curve , which constrain the banks ' ability to generate revenues and thus weigh on profitability , were the likely causes . This has especially increased the market 's focus on Italian banks which carry large amounts of non-performing loans on their books , in a situation in which the rules of the newly launched European Banking Union severely limit the ability of governments to provide support to banks . Such stresses are likely to further restrain the lending activity of banks in Italy , and possibly elsewhere . At the same time , leverage in the banking system has , in our view , been reduced sufficiently to prevent a renewed financial crisis in the Eurozone . Overall , however , tighter financial conditions are likely to continue to imply sub-par investment and growth in the Eurozone periphery , as has been the case in past years . To summarize , we think that the Brexit vote mainly has negative consequences for the UK economy , whereas spillovers - primarily via trade , confidence and financial conditions - are likely to be contained elsewhere . Nevertheless , recent developments regarding the European banking sector are a cause for concern , and need to be closely monitored going forward . Even if the impact of each channel in isolation might not be particularly large , the sum might still represent a non-negligible drag on the European economy , in particular . We have therefore maintained our 2016 growth forecasts at current levels , in spite of the more positive data prints before the Brexit vote , but have slightly downgraded our 2017 forecasts . More negative scenarios would come into play over the longer term if political fragmentation risks increase in the EU more severely , contrary to our assumption .
Bank of England is likely to loosen monetary policy again , through rate cuts and potentially a reactivation of asset purchases , after being on hold for almost four years . For the Eurozone , the referendum and slowdown in the UK mean higher downside risks for the economic outlook , but we still expect growth rates above 1 percent in both 2016 and 2017 . The European Central Bank is now more likely to extend its asset purchase program by at least six months in September , which may also require the adjustment of some important program parameters to gain the necessary flexibility . The next phase of political uncertainty may already be approaching , with the constitutional referendum due to be held in Italy in October . If the changes to the constitution are rejected - in which case Prime Minister Mario Renzi has said he would step down and call new elections - the euro and EU-skeptic " Five Star " movement is on track to become the largest party in parliament , as indicated by current polls . For the US Federal Reserve , the implication of weaker growth in Europe and further monetary policy easing is that it will likely have to remain in wait-and-see mode , even though downside risks to US growth and inflation seem significantly less pronounced than for the Eurozone ; the recent June payroll report has confirmed the robustness of the US economy . We have shifted the probable timing of the next rate hike to December 2016 , but acknowledge that substantial uncertainty remains around this new base case . Advanced economies once again face a potential economic shock and rising uncertainty , at a time when growth generally is still low . Global business activity , as measured by the Purchasing Managers ' Indices ( PMI ) , continued to expand only at subdued rates in June , even before the UK referendum decision . A significant setback in July cannot be excluded . We therefore expect the global economy to continue to grow sluggishly in the second half of 2016 , with risks tilted to the downside . This is particularly true for large economies such as China , where we expect a renewed slowdown after the recent rebound . A recurrent issue in an environment of subdued growth is the risk of an US recession - both whether it has already begun or what the probability of a recession is over the coming quarters . Recent US economic data shows a decline in industrial production that by historical comparison usually occurs during times of recession . However , manufacturing production has not yet shown a similar decline , and retail sales as well as employment continue to rise . This suggests that the US economy is , at least currently , still quite a way from recession . Regarding the likelihood of a recession over the coming quarters , Glenn D. Rudebusch ( 2016 ) from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco has shown that there is little evidence for the often cited assertion that recoveries inevitably " die of old age . " With the current expansion that began in July 2009 being 85 months old , his model suggests that the probability of it ending in the next month is approximately 2.6 percent , which - when cumulated - gives a probability of just over 25 percent that the US economy may fall into recession over the next 12 months . A model developed by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York that takes the yield curve as a recession indicator , currently indicates a risk of recession over the next 12 months of around 8 percent . This is significantly higher than the 2.2 percent indicated by the model just a year ago . However , 12 months ahead of the Great Recession that began in December 2007 , the model was already flagging a 20 percent probability of recession within the next year . As such , the risk of a recession has increased compared to a year ago , but still remains comparatively low . In this context , it is also important to keep in mind that low longer-term interest rates are a stimulus to the economy , thus providing the seeds for a continuation of the expansion . In addition , with energy prices apparently having stabilized , the largest negative impact emanating from the energy sector on US manufacturing activity may already have passed . Other components of domestic demand look relatively robust , especially private consumption and residential investment . We therefore continue to expect the US economy to grow by about 1.8 percent year-on-year in 2016 , and 2 percent year-on-year in 2017 .
the garment , which enables you to track the path of the garment from production to the retail store , and shows you that you bought a brand product and not a fake . An additional benefit is you can easily retrieve it if you misplace it . Nowadays , the compatibility of technology and fashion provides more food for thought and a vision for the future spanning from e-retail through e-textiles or smart fabrics to 3D printing . Computer design is already being used in the production of clothing , and prototypes of 3D-printed fashion can be seen at fashion shows or in online videos . E-commerce is already effectively in place , but could experience another boost . Replacement items such as underwear and jeans are already being bought via the Internet , mainly driven by cheaper prices and , to a lesser extent , shopping time saved . It is an easy process , especially if you know your size . But imagine you have a specific brand in mind , or are even thinking about having something tailor-made . The future holds a solution : Have your body scanned and use the measurements when visiting the virtual retail store online . The items you purchase will then be sent straight to your door . A pioneer in innovative biorobotics and the virtual fitting room is Fits.me , founded in 2010 and acquired by Rakuten Inc . ( a global leader in e-commerce ) in July 2015 . The company is receiving lots of publicity these days after launching a partnership with the retailer Hawes & Curtis . Its virtual fitting room helps to solve the single biggest problem for apparel e-commerce , i.e. that consumers cannot try the clothes on before they buy them . The site 's shape-shifting robotic mannequin takes your body measurements and mimics your shape so that you can see exactly how clothing would fit you . The site has been such a success that clothing sales at online German retailer Quelle increased by three times , and the number of clothing returns fell by 28 percent . Another revolutionary development is e-textiles , also known as smart garments or fabrics , which enable digital components to be embedded in them to provide added value to the wearer . In an article on Forbes.com dated 7 May 2014 , on the future of fabric , author Rebecca Gaddis quoted Rebeccah Pailes-Friedman of the Pratt Institute as saying that " what makes smart fabrics revolutionary is that they have the ability to do many things that traditional fabrics cannot , including communicate , transform , conduct energy and even grow . " One example is therapeutic textiles . Skin is the only organ of the body that comes directly in contact with garments . Since clothes stay in contact with the skin for the longest time , developing fabrics that can heal or protect the skin or even the body would add more value to them . Therapeutic textiles provide new approaches and are slowly gaining importance because of their many benefits and positive results . A coating of herbal extracts on the fabric can provide a remedial value . These fabrics play an important role in relieving stress , rejuvenating or curing skin ailments , and can even help you sleep better . Your underwear is an integral part of your wardrobe , and you are probably very selective when you buy it . In the future , you will become even more selective once you learn what your underwear and other garments can do for you in addition to making you feel comfortable and well dressed . One day , instead of looking into the mirror , you will be able to ask your clothes how you feel . For example , your underwear may tell you if you are coming down with something before you know it yourself , or notify others if you have fallen over or help doctors diagnose and treat illnesses . The next generation of wearable technology aims to embed sensors in your clothes so that you only need to get dressed to start monitoring your health . The functions required for personal health have a strong overlap with those of sports and sports training . In general , the idea is that information on the wearers ' physiology , e.g. heart rates , respiration rates , body temperature , biochemistry and activities are recorded and stored or continuously transmitted to a clinic in order to help monitor their health . In this way , people with long-term health issues can work on gradually improving their health . Other people with chronic illnesses could stay at home instead of in hospital , but still have high-quality health supervision . How does it work ? Smart fibers with sensors are knitted straight into the fabrics . With conductive or optical sensors woven into T-shirts , shorts and underwear , smart clothes will be able to pick up a greater range of body signals at much higher sensitivities than rigid sensors , such as clip-on sensors or wristbands . In the future , technology will change the way we perceive fashion and the way we shop . The sooner we grow accustomed to these innovations and inventions the better . But never fear - at the end of the day we will presumably continue to wear fashionable clothes - just from different materials .
fashion and sell at full prices , which is the key to a fashion company 's profitability and value . The old model for an apparel company was to design a collection , produce prototypes , send it to production and have it delivered to stores - with the whole process taking a year . When the product reached the store , the company might have missed the latest fashions of the season , but would still have to promote and sell its stock because the orders were already passed on to its suppliers . Zara reinvented the supply chain by first waiting to see the fashion shows of the high end fashion labels ( around six months ahead of a season ) in order to gain an idea what will be en vogue . After that it designs and produces garments in its headquarters in Spain and , within a few weeks , delivers the products to the stores . Zara owns its supply chain and all of its stores , whereby the stores report what is selling , so that Zara only produces what is in demand . Its designers are on the street or watching the Internet blogs to see the new fashions , so that the collection can evolve during the season . This fast model avoids making fashion mistakes and having to sell at a discount . All apparel manufacturers have had to learn from this model and try to adapt their supply chains accordingly . H & M , which designs in Sweden , but then outsources production to Asia in order to reduce costs , has had to evolve as well . Although in H & M 's focus is price rather than fashion , it decided to relocate some of its production closer to the market to be faster . For the jobs it continues to outsource to Asia , H & M imposes tighter deadlines to shorten the supply chain . Japanese retailer Uniqlo , purchased by Fast Retailing in 2005 , has an excellent inventory control system , and puts the right product at the right time in the right location . However , Uniqlo has a small number of designs that tend to be more simplistic and practical than those of Zara or H & M. It manufactures its clothing in Japan , but also outsources some work to China . While luxury goods companies have been successful selling their products around the world , fashion companies have also become global . H & M , established in Sweden , was first successful in Northern Europe , but has since successfully expanded into Southern Europe , China and the USA . Global growth opportunities allow it to add 10 percent more stores per annum . Zara was originally successful in Southern Europe and Latin America , but later expanded into Asia , some emerging markets , and has now entered the USA . It also opens 8 percent - 10 percent more stores per annum . Inditex has grown into the world 's largest apparel company , with more than 20 billion euro in sales and a market capitalization of 90 billion euro . While successful models have emerged , the history of fashion is marked by failures too . One of the most common pitfalls is to become overexposed . In the 1990s , Abercrombie & Fitch became the top brand for teenagers . Stores with loud music , the smell of cologne , teens dancing on the floor , and a popular logo led to worldwide success . But when the logo became overexposed , it lost its teen appeal and customers moved away . The company has now been struggling to revive the brand for the past five years . The jury is out for US fashion designer Michael Kors . After being one of the fastest-growing brands in recent years , the wave of popularity seems to be declining along with sales . Kors handbags were highly desired and the company went into aggressive store expansion to capitalize on its success . Kors went public in late 2011 at a share price of USD 24 . It peaked at close to USD 100 in the summer of 2014 . But unfortunately for the fashion designer , the apex was followed by an equally sharp drop after the brand grew too aggressively and suffered from overexposure . The company is now closing stores , de-emphasizing logo products , and focusing on the higher end to regain its aura . The success of a brand lies in its longevity and resilience . Hermes is a great example of a conservatively managed brand and why the company attracts one of the highest valuations in the luxury goods sector . The Birkin bag created in 1984 is still one of the most desired handbags , even by fashionistas . Burberry is a great example of a brand that was successfully rejuvenated . The check logo had become overexposed with the British football fans wearing Burberry products and cheap copies spreading everywhere . But with Christopher Bailey as a new designer since 2001 , the brand has been repositioned and successfully elevated to become a fashionable luxury brand . Higher-margin accessories , fragrances and babywear were added . The brand jumped from being worth 200 million British pounds in 1997 to 6 billion . But not every brand can stretch itself into new product categories . In conclusion , fashion companies can be worth investing in when they are riding a successful trend , or conservatively managed , or recovering from a setback . But , to avoid long-lasting pitfalls , beware of overexposure and brand fatigue , and take a close look at the supply chain behind the model . Selling at full prices is the key for profitable growth . Globalization offers great growth opportunities for successful companies .
. Nowadays the Fed is run by a central government agency in Washington , known as the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve . The seven members of the Board of Governors are nominated by the President of the United States and confirmed by the U.S. Senate . The full term of office is 14 years . The President also nominates the chairman of the Board of Governors . The chairman holds the second most powerful position in the US after the President , as the Fed controls all of the US dollars in circulation , and , as a result , influences international liquidity . The decisions made by the Fed therefore do not just affect monetary policy , but are also of great significance for the whole world in terms of power politics . The Fed chairman is also chairman of the Federal Open Market Committee ( FOMC ) . The FOMC holds eight meetings per year to discuss interest rate policy , and whether to raise or lower key interest rates . The Fed is responsible for ensuring the banking system remains intact , and maintaining a healthy economy . After each FOMC meeting , the chairman informs the public of the results . And the whole world is listening - for the last 18 years , brokers have hung on Alan Greenspan 's every word . On January 31 , 2006 , Alan Greenspan stepped down as Fed chairman . US President Bush described him as a legend who had taken control during his term of office as no other central banker in history had done . Moreover , Bush jokingly said that Greenspan was the only chairman of the Federal Reserve to ever achieve " rock star status " . In fact , Greenspan originally wanted to be a musician . He played the saxophone and clarinet , and dreamt of following in the footsteps of his idol , Benny Goodman . Part of Greenspan 's dream came true in any case , even without the instruments : fans and autograph hunters flock around him in droves whenever he appears in public . The Wall Street brokers who decorate their offices with his portraits call him the greatest Fed chairman of all time . Greenspan became head of the Federal Reserve in 1987 , at the ripe old age of 61 . Previously the economist worked as a private financial adviser . He held the post of chairman of the Federal Reserve under four US presidents . He always opposed the idea of monetary policy being bound by fixed rules . His description of monetary policy as " an art form , not a science " is still valid today . Greenspan became a legend partly thanks to his image as the second oracle of Delphi . He conveyed the results of the FOMC meetings in an almost cryptic manner , and once said of himself : " If I turn out to be particularly clear , you 've probably misunderstood what I 've said " . Greenspan hit the spot with his analyses and measures , which he supposedly often devised in the bathtub . As well as fascinating and influencing the US economy , they also had a great impact on financial systems all over the world . The German newspaper " Die Zeit " said that " No Fed chairman before him had a better understanding of the investment banker 's psyche and was so devoted to cultivating it . No Fed chairman before him understood the economy with all its intricacies and pitfalls so clearly . " Consequently , the US experienced a prolonged boom lasting almost a decade between 1992 and 2000 , the longest in American history . " Ben Bernanke will replace a legend , " said George W. Bush , when he named his economics adviser as the new chairman of the Federal Reserve . Ben Bernanke has been at the helm since February 1 , 2006 . Bernanke joined the Fed 's Board of Governors in 2002 , and just three years later , Bush appointed him as chairman of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers in June 2005 . Unlike Greenspan , Bernanke is an academic who has never worked in the free market economy . According to Robert Perry , a former Fed Governor , Bernanke 's vast specialist knowledge means that nobody can hold a candle to him . For the time being though , it remains to be seen what tests and challenges Bernanke will face , and how he handles them . The only thing that is certain , however , according to the conservative American Enterprise Institute , is that the months ahead will hold great uncertainties . If Bernanke succeeds in steering the US economy between the pitfalls of strong inflation and a severe recession , he will also be able to build on the confidence of the markets and the economy .
