The news article discusses a recent terror attack that took place in an ultra-Orthodox Jerusalem neighborhood. Four rabbis were killed in this attack, along with several others who were injured. The attackers were two Palestinian cousins from East Jerusalem who entered a synagogue armed with guns and knives.

The victims of the attack included Rabbi Moshe Twersky, Rabbi Aryeh Kupinsky, Rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg, and Rabbi Kalman Levine. Three of them had dual U.S.-Israeli citizenship while Goldberg was a British-Israeli national.

The attack has further strained relations between Palestinians and Jews and has put the city of Jerusalem on edge. It is the deadliest attack in Jerusalem since 2008.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu blamed Hamas and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas for inciting violence that led to this attack. However, Abbas condemned the attack and called for an end to tensions over religious sites in Jerusalem.

The article also provides some background information about each of the victims. Rabbi Kalman Levine was described as someone who prioritized connecting to God in his life. He had been living in Israel for years.

Rabbi Moshe Twersky came from a well-known family of rabbis and scholars. His father was internationally renowned rabbi Isadore Twersky, known for his work at Harvard University.

Rabbi Aryeh Kupinsky grew up in Michigan before moving to Israel with his family when he was young. Friends describe him as sweet-natured and always smiling.

Rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg used to work as a chemical engineer before settling down in Jerusalem with his wife and children. He is remembered as a tolerant man who didn't impose his views on others.

The article also mentions Zidan Saif, an Israeli police officer who died while trying to apprehend the attackers. Saif belonged to the Druze community which is an Arabic-speaking religious group living in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights.

The article concludes with statements from mourners and world leaders, including Israeli President Reuven Rivlin, who attended Saif's funeral. Rivlin emphasized the need for better Jewish-Arab relations and praised Saif for his bravery.

In summary, this news article discusses a terror attack in Jerusalem that targeted a synagogue and left four rabbis dead. It highlights the impact of the attack on both the Jewish and Palestinian communities and includes background information about the victims. The article also mentions political reactions to the attack and highlights efforts to improve relations between different religious groups in Israel.