The news article is about James Traficant Jr., a former politician who made controversial statements and had a unique appearance. Traficant was known for his disregard for ethics in politics and his belief that there should be no ethics committee. He gained favor with reporters in Washington because he was willing to offer opinions on various topics.

One aspect that made Traficant famous in Washington was his distinctive hair, which many reporters tried to describe. The Washington Post referred to it as a "Planet of the Apes sort of hair helmet," while Washingtonian magazine compared it to "a creature from Lake Erie before it was cleaned up." However, it was later discovered that Traficant wore a toupee when he was booked into jail in 2002.

Traficant had an animated and flamboyant style when delivering speeches in the House of Representatives. He often ended them with his trademark phrase, "Beam me up!" Before entering politics, he had played football at the University of Pittsburgh and served as a drug counselor and sheriff in Mahoning County, Ohio.

While serving as sheriff, Traficant faced bribery charges but managed to persuade the jury to acquit him by claiming he conducted a sting operation. This success led him to be elected to Congress in 1984. As a congressman, Traficant maintained an image as a maverick populist who criticized foreign aid and various government agencies such as the IRS and CIA.

In April 2002, Traficant faced legal troubles again when he was convicted on several charges including bribery, racketeering, and tax evasion. Despite not being trained as an attorney, he chose to represent himself during the trial. As a result of his conviction, he became only the second congressman expelled from Congress since the Civil War with overwhelming support from fellow members (420-1 vote).

During his prison sentence from 2002 to 2009, Traficant took up painting as a hobby. After his release, he attempted to regain his seat in Congress as an independent candidate but lost to the incumbent Democrat, Tim Ryan.

In summary, James Traficant Jr. was a colorful and controversial politician who made headline-worthy statements and had an attention-grabbing appearance. He disregarded ethics in politics and faced legal troubles throughout his political career, eventually being expelled from Congress after being convicted of bribery charges.