The 25-year-old naturalized American born in Kosovo planned a car bombing that would be followed by hostage-taking and the explosion of a suicide belt he planned to wear, according to a criminal complaint made public Monday.

 "We all have to die, so why not die the Islamic way?" Osmakac allegedly told an undercover FBI employee, according to the complaint.

 Osmakac said in a martyrdom video message recorded shortly before his arrest Saturday night that he wanted "'pay back' for wrongs he felt were done to Muslims," the complaint said.

 O'Neill said that, through the local Muslim community, "we were able to know that this person had this ideology and wanted to commit a crime." Steve Ibison, who heads the FBI's Tampa office, called assistance from members of the Muslim community "very significant" throughout the investigation.

 "This case is not about the Muslim religion, and it's not about the Muslim community," Ibison said. "It's about an individual who committed a crime. "

Two law enforcement officials, who asked not to be identified because they were not authorized to talk about the probe, said the suspect does not appear to have any ties to al Qaeda, and early information indicated he was "self-radicalized. "

"I don't have any indication anyone else was involved in the plot and pushing this," one official said.

 "There is no indication he was acting at the control or direction of al Qaeda," a second official said.

 The federal investigation of Osmakac began in September when a "confidential human source" told the FBI that Osmakac, a resident of Pinellas Park, Florida, "asked for al Qaeda flags," the complaint said.

 By November, the suspect was discussing potential terror targets in Tampa and asked for the confidential source's help in getting guns and explosives for the attacks, the complaint said.

 The government's source introduced Osmakac to an undercover FBI employee, which led to a December 21 meeting during which the suspect said "he wished to acquire an AK-47-style machine gun, Uzi submachine guns, high capacity magazines, grenades and an explosive belt," the complaint said.   He later allegedly gave the FBI employee a $500 down payment for the weapons, according to the document.

 "The explosives and firearms that he allegedly sought and attempted to use were rendered inoperable by law enforcement and posed no threat to the public," the government said.

 Osmakac outlined his plans during a New Year's Day meeting with the undercover FBI employee, it said.   His alleged bomb targets were "night clubs in the Ybor City area of Tampa, the