"There are no ethics in politics," he declared at his ethics hearing. "And there should be no ethics committee. It is dog eat dog. Castrate your opponent. "  Such comments made him a favorite of reporters in Washington, where he was willing to offer his opinion on just about any topic.   'Beam me up!'  He was equally famous in Washington for his hair.   The Washington Post obit noted: "Reporters outdid themselves in trying to describe Mr. Traficant's pompadour -- and to determine whether it was real. In the words of the Los Angeles Times, it was a 'Planet of the Apes sort of hair helmet,' or as Washingtonian magazine put it, 'a creature from Lake Erie before it was cleaned up.' "  But it turned out Traficant wore a toupee. This was discovered in 2002 when he was booked into a jail in Akron, Ohio, before being sent to federal prison, and authorities searched for "contraband or weapons," according to a CNN story. A jail official said it was a small hairpiece and didn't fully cover Traficant's head.   Traficant made flamboyant and animated House speeches, which often ended with his trademark, "Beam me up!"  A former football player at the University of Pittsburgh, Traficant went on to play the role of hometown hero after graduation, serving as a drug counselor and Mahoning County, Ohio, sheriff.   While sheriff, Traficant was tried on bribery charges in 1983. Acting as his own lawyer, he persuaded a jury to acquit him, saying he was conducting his own sting operation. He was elected to Congress in 1984.   In Washington, he barreled through the House in rumpled sports coats and loud shirts. Traficant fashioned himself as a maverick populist, spending much of his career railing against foreign aid and various government agencies, including the Internal Revenue Service and the CIA.  "Lying, thieving, stealing nincompoops" is how he once described the latter.   Convicted of bribery charges  In April 2002, Traficant was convicted on 10 charges of bribery, racketeering and tax evasion. Although not a lawyer, Traficant again represented himself.   He was expelled from the House later that year by a 420-1 vote, becoming only the second congressman expelled since the Civil War.   He took up painting as a hobby while he served his