"I know he's in a great place. His priority in life was connecting to God. "

Levine's friends and family cling to that optimism in the wake of his slaying, along with three others rabbis, on Tuesday at the ultra-Orthodox Jerusalem neighborhood of Har Nof.

 At 7 a.m. local time, officials say that two Palestinian cousins from East Jerusalem, armed with a gun and butcher knives, came charging into the synagogue and slaughtered 55-year-old Levine, Moshe Twersky, 59; Aryeh Kupinsky, 43 and Avraham Shmuel Goldberg, 68.

 Levine, Kupinsky and Twerksy had dual U.S.-Israeli citizenship, according to the Jerusalem Post. Goldberg was a British-Israeli national, authorities said, and reportedly grew up in Liverpool.

 While police tried to apprehend the attackers, at least eight people were wounded. Among them was 30-year-old Israel police officer Zidan Saif, who was Druze.

 The Druze are an Arabic-speaking religious community, a monotheistic offshoot of Islam that also combines elements of other religions. Many of its members live in Israeli-occupied Golan Heights.

 Saif died hours later Tuesday. Thousands, including those from the ultra-Orthodox Jewish community, attended his funeral Wednesday, Haaretz reported.

 The terror attack left behind more than a gut-wrenching scene. Police released photos of the synagogue's floor covered in blood and prayer books and prayer shawls covered in red. It has inflamed already strained relations between Palestinians and Jews and put the city of Jerusalem on edge.

 The brutality at the synagogue was the deadliest attack in Jerusalem since 2008 when a man with an automatic weapon and handgun killed eight seminary students. A series of stabbings and vehicles attacks has recently beset the city.

 Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called the attack "the direct result of incitement being led by Hamas" and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, referring first to the Palestinian group that controls Gaza and next to the Fatah movement leader in control of the West Bank.

 Abbas reportedly condemned the attack and stressed the importance of ending the sometimes root of such violence, including tensions over what Jews call the Temple Mount and Palestinians call al-Aqsa Mosque.

 Ma'an, a semi-official Palestinian news agency, identified the attackers as Ghassan Abu Jamal and his cousin Udayy.

 It's unclear whether their alleged actions were part of a coordinated campaign or spontaneous.

 A 'gigantic soul'

A world away, in Los Angeles, Shimon Kraft focused on remembering his friend. "He had an amazingly gigantic soul," he told CNN. "He didn't waste a minute. He was so alive. "

Levine had been living in Israel for years, Kraft said.

 Alan Edelman, the executive director of