Read the real CNN article here: Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, a possible 2016 White House contender, said Tuesday that he would not be dissuaded by recent CNN poll numbers showing him trailing badly among New Hampshire Republicans.Only 3% of New Hampshire Republican primary voters backed him in CNN's September 8-11 survey. The governor finished at the bottom of a field of 11 potential presidential candidates.

"I think at this point polls are measuring name ID," Jindal told reporters at a Christian Science Monitor breakfast in Washington. "The first time I ran for office, I was ... polling within the margin of error, which means I was at zero."

"There's no reason to be coy," he said."I am thinking, I am praying about whether I'll run in 2016."

The 43-year-old governor, who has been boosting his profile nationwide partly through his role as vice chairman of the Republican Governors Association, insisted that he would not make a final decision about a 2016 run until after the November midterm elections.

"If I were to decide to run for 2016, it would have nothing to do with polls or fundraising numbers," he said. "It would simply be based on the same calculation that I made when I ran for ... Congress or governor. Do I think I could make a difference? Do I have something unique to offer in terms of my specific ideas or my experiences? Is this something that I'm supposed to be doing?"

Jindal used his appearance at the Monitor breakfast to unveil an energy proposal from his nonprofit group, America Next. The plan embraces an "all of the above" strategy but stresses the importance of continued development of domestic oil and gas through hydraulic fracturing and other means.

Oil and gas play a particularly critical role in the Louisiana economy.

Jindal blasted the Obama administration's refusal to move forward with controversial offshore drilling projects.

"Right now, we've got an administration (of) science deniers when it comes to harnessing America's energy resources and potential," he said.

Jindal fielded a wide range of questions from reporters at the breakfast. Among other things, he expressed his support for the administration's decision to strengthen U.S. efforts to combat climate change.

"I think it is important that we lean forward," the governor said. "We've got certainly both a humanitarian basis as well as vested interest in wanting to help countries around the world that are hardest hit."

Asked about efforts to confront terrorism in the Middle East, Jindal said Congress should back White House proposals to train and arm local forces. But he argued that repeated delays on the part of the administration had allowed extremist groups like ISIS to grow unchecked for too long.

"Our friends don't trust us; our enemies don't fear us," he said.

Jindal tackled a number of subjects likely to prove popular with GOP primary voters, including the need for further spending controls and complaints of government overreach in healthcare policies.

For many conservatives, it is "shocking" to see politicians "speak so eloquently" about "the rights and protections of citizens overseas while ignoring what (is) happening here at home," he said.

Jindal called current leadership one of the worst since Jimmy Carter's presidency.

"Carter believed in American exceptionalism. I don't think our current leaders do," he said. "They are some of most radical politicians ideologically, and I believe they have failed us."

"Jimmy Carter," he added, "was just incompetent."

---

Imaginary News Piece:

Texas Governor John Smith Remains Undeterred by Poll Numbers

Austin, Texas - Texas Governor John Smith remains undeterred by recent poll numbers showing him trailing behind other potential presidential candidates among Republican primary voters in New Hampshire. According to a recent survey conducted by CNN, only 5% of New Hampshire Republicans backed Governor Smith, placing him at the bottom of a field of 10 potential candidates.

Speaking at a press conference in Austin, Governor Smith dismissed the significance of the polls, stating that they are merely measuring name recognition at this point. "When I first ran for office, I was polling within the margin of error," he said. "But that didn't stop me then, and it won't stop me now."

Governor Smith emphasized that his decision to run for president in 2024 will not be based on poll numbers or fundraising figures but rather on his belief in making a difference and offering unique ideas and experiences to the American people. He stated that he will make a final decision after closely observing the outcome of the upcoming midterm elections.

During his press conference, Governor Smith also unveiled an ambitious plan to boost renewable energy production in Texas. The proposal includes significant investments in wind and solar power infrastructure while maintaining support for traditional energy sources such as oil and gas.

Governor Smith criticized federal policies restricting offshore drilling projects as detrimental to Texas' economy. "We need an administration that recognizes the importance