Imitation is ubiquitous in humans. It has been argued to be a fundamentally important capacity for human culture [REF] and a developmental basis for language and cognitive skills [REF], representing a powerful learning mechanism for human beings, whether infants or adults. The present study expands on previous research on imitative abilities and investigates the role played by different types of imitation skills (language-based multimodal imitation vs. object-based imitation) that have thus far rarely been assessed together. It also contributes to the literature on the imitation abilities of young preschoolers, an age group in whom important linguistic and social developmental advances take place and which has hitherto not been actively studied in the field of imitation abilities. To our knowledge, this is the first time that the relationship between different types of imitation is investigated in relation to linguistic and pragmatic skills in preschool children. We will start by briefly reviewing the previous literature on the relationship between imitative behaviors and language and sociopragmatic abilities, making the case that language-based imitation should be assessed from a socially relevant multimodal perspective. Imitation skills, understood as the ability to intentionally replicate others’ behaviors or actions, play a fundamental role in the development of language and how it is used in social contexts (i.e., social communication). Numerous empirical and longitudinal studies have shown that spontaneous imitative behaviors which naturally occur in language interactions during the first and second year of life (specifically between 9 and 24 months), as well as elicited imitation behaviors, are key for language production and comprehension [REF], the acquisition of vocabulary [REF], and social communication behaviors such as interactive actions like requesting or greeting [REF]. In relation to language production and comprehension skills, Bates et al. (1979) performed a correlational study with 9- to 13-month-old infants and reported a strong link between vocal imitation (i.e., imitation of sounds and words) and language production and comprehension at this stage of development. Hanika and Boyer (2019) demonstrated that motor imitation behaviors (like clapping hands or pushing a toy car across a table) in infants between 15 and 18 months have a unique relationship to language comprehension skills. In relation to the acquisition of vocabulary, in a study with children from 9 through 15 months, Carpenter et al. (1998) observed a positive relationship between the age when infants began to imitate arbitrary actions involving physical objects (e.g., hitting the side of a box or patting the top of a box with one hand) and the age when they began to use referential language (i.e., words used to refer to specific actions or objects). Masur and Eichorst (2002) showed that infants that imitated more novel words at 13 months had larger lexicons at 17 months and 21 months, demonstrating that a higher frequency in the imitation of novel words at 13 months predicted infants’ later lexical development. Snow (1989) concluded that vocal and gestural imitation abilities at 14 months were significantly correlated with language skills (i.e., the number of verbs produced or total productive vocabulary) at 20 months. As for the relationship with sociopragmatic skills, Dohmen et al. (2016) carried out a longitudinal study with 29 2-year-old Germanspeaking children identified as late talkers, who were followed up at 4 years of age. The results showed that while early language skills at 2 years were significantly associated with later language outcomes, imitative behaviors made a significant contribution to the prediction of the social communication outcome two years later. Clinically, Dohmen et al.’s study demonstrated that body movement imitation measures have the potential to improve the identification of preschoolers who are at risk of later social communication and language problems. Focusing on non-typically developing populations, the study by Wray, Saunders, McGuire, Cousins and Norbury (2017) revealed that children with language impairment (LI) showed weaknesses in gesture accuracy imitation patterns (i.e., imitation skills in a gesture elicitation task) in comparison to typically developing peers. Additionally, the ability to imitate both words and simple syntactic structures has been shown to be associated with language development in children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) [REF]. Importantly, the spontaneous or elicited imitative behaviors analyzed in the abovementioned developmental studies encompass both language-based imitation, which includes several language components (e.g., speech vocalizations, body actions, facial expressions, and vocabulary), and object-based imitation (e.g., imitative patterns involving actions on objects observed through play-based activities comprising free-play, book sharing, constructive play, or symbolic play). To our knowledge, only a handful of studies have explicitly compared the relevance of language-based and object-based imitation skills, suggesting that the former have stronger links to language abilities than objectbased imitation skills [REF]. Stone, Ousley and Littleford’s (1997) study suggested that the imitation of socially relevant body movements and the imitation of actions with objects represented independent dimensions which are not equally related to patterns of language use and language development. In their results, while the imitation of body movements was concurrently and predictively associated with expressive language skills, the imitation of actions on objects was associated with play skills. Masur and Ritz (1984) found that 10- to 16-month-old infants more accurately imitated communicative gestures such as waving or pointing than hand and arm movements with no communicative significance, such as opening and closing of the fist or raising an arm. A similar pattern was reported by Rogers et al. (2003) with regard to facial imitation (e.g., extending the tongue and wiggling it to both sides or making a noisy kiss), with more imitations of facial expressions which were strongly linked to interpersonal social engagement. These findings support the idea that the social function of gestures might be strongly modulating infants’ imitation patterns in a more significant fashion than non-social imitation behaviors. Finally, Ingersoll and Lalonde (2010) analyzed the beneficial role of gesture imitation tasks over object-based imitation tasks in language therapy settings with older children with ASD and found that gesture imitation tasks had a stronger impact. Despite the important contributions made by the abovementioned studies, it is noteworthy that none of them incorporated an integrative multimodal view of language-based imitation which includes the gestural, prosodic, and verbal/lexical components. The present study aims to fill in this gap by analyzing the relationship between multimodal language-based imitation (understood as the integration between gestural, prosodic, and verbal/lexical content dimensions) and object-based imitation in a later stage of development (namely, the early preschool years). Although imitative learning behaviors tend to dwindle spontaneously from about 2 years of age, as the child moves into the preschooler stage, imitation continues to be a key component of social communication that promotes shared experiences and social play [REF]. It is thus relevant to ask whether young preschoolers’ abilities to accurately perform the multimodal imitation of socially relevant events are positively correlated with language and sociopragmatic skills. We believe that this is an important developmental period to focus on, because it is when children are delving right into the complex areas of language. When they enter school, they are expected to have certain school readiness skills such as sociopragmatic abilities and basic narration skills, and these skills have been demonstrated to be predictive of important aspects of language and academic development [REF]. In this period, narrative and sociopragmatic skills are thus key in furthering our knowledge about the acquisition of the intersection between social cognition and language [REF]. Summarizing, as previous studies have focused on the relevance of imitation behaviors in early infancy and on children with language disorders, further research is still needed to fully understand the role of socially relevant imitation patterns at the preschool stage. The main hypothesis underlying this investigation is that language-based imitation abilities (crucially regarded as the integration of three separate and complementary dimensions) will be related to both complex language measures (i.e., narration skills) and sociopragmatic measures in preschoolers. Several arguments support our proposal that it is crucial to investigate imitation from an integrated multimodal perspective. For a long time, language has been studied primarily as a unichannel phenomenon (i.e., only taking verbal cues into account), skirting over the fact that language is used, learned, and has evolved through face-to-face interactions [REF]. However, numerous studies have provided evidence that speech and gesture are processed similarly in terms of semantic and temporal integration [REF]. Furthermore, there is evidence that prosodic information from visual and vocal channels is processed similarly by the brain [REF], and developmental research shows that prosody and gesture develop together in an intricate relationship [REF]. All in all, the parallel development of multimodal cues (prosody, gesture, and verbal content) and their fine alignment with speech demonstrate the need to assess the value of these multimodal cues together.