Reference is ubiquitous in conversation: as speakers interact, they refer to entities relevant to their interaction. A commonly used form of reference is a referring expression with a noun phrase – in its wide variety of forms ranging from pronouns, definite and indefinite descriptions, to proper nouns [REF] – at its centre, here referred to as NP REs. As interlocutors are engaged in interactive communication, some changes can typically be observed in the NP REs they produce over the course of their interaction – what I will call changes-in-interaction.1 Firstly, their contributions generally tend to become more similar, both lexically and in terms of the grammatical constructions employed. This convergence on forms of expression has been argued to be linked with the cognitive process of speakers aligning on their linguistic representations, as outlined by the Interactive Alignment Model [REF], and is well-documented in psycholinguistic research, especially for lexical convergence. It has been proposed that speakers form conceptual pacts in interaction on which they lexically entrain, and that they establish referential precedents [REF]. The second change-in-interaction that has been widely observed in the use of NP REs is that interlocutors tend to shorten their contributions [REF], a phenomenon with has been referred to as “referential contraction” [REF]. The present chapter will predominantly be concerned with this latter process of change-in-interaction – though the two processes generally occur in parallel. In observing the shortening process, this chapter especially aims to describe central trends of structural change-in-interaction in the NP REs produced over multiple rounds of interactive dialogue. Specifically, the following research questions are addressed: 1. What is the degree to which speakers’ NP REs (produced in a repeated referential communication task) are shortened over the course of a dialogic interaction? Which elements of the NP REs are subject to shortening? 2. What structural changes can be observed in the production of NP REs across four rounds of an interactive referential communication task? To investigate change-in-interaction in the use of NP REs, a referential communication task was devised that elicited spoken dialogic conversation over four rounds of interaction, during which interlocutors repeatedly referred to the same sets of visual stimuli. A typical shortening process is illustrated in Example (1), taken from the resulting corpus of spoken interactive dialogue, with the initial first-round NP RE produced for a visual stimulus in (1a) and a selection of subsequent references to that same stimulus in (1b–d). In line with previous research, the initial NP RE in (1a) is longer and gets shortened over the course of the interaction, with interlocutors also converging on a particular NP RE, namely the green dress shirt. The focus of this study is on how speakers, as they converge on forms of expression and shorten their NP REs, change in terms of their preferred grammatical structure for the NP REs they produce. Particularly, the aim is to describe general tendencies regarding the types and forms of modifying and descriptive elements in the NP RE construction preferred throughout the interaction. Example (1) illustrates a typical trajectory of change observed in the present study: the structure of the NP RE changes from the initial presence of post-head clausal elements (e.g. it’s green) in rounds 1 and 2, to a relatively greater frequency of phrasal (pre-)modification (e.g. green) in rounds 3 and 4. These changes are indicative of what Biber and Clark (2002) have termed “compression”; this term is used to cover both the shortening process as well as the changes in structural preferences described above along the trajectory from clausal to phrasal elements. In Section 2, previous research on change-in-interaction – especially on changes relating to compression in NP REs – is discussed. The findings from experimental referential communication task studies are contextualised in theoretical approaches relating to the production of NP REs, namely the IAM [REF] and discussions of familiarity and accessibility [REF]. Section 3 introduces the experimental set-up employed to elicit a corpus of spoken English dialogues. Based on this corpus, an analysis of the structural changes in NP REs over the course of the dialogical interactions is presented in Section 4. The analysis shows that as NP REs get shortened – particularly in terms of the length of post-head elements – their structure changes from initially more elaborated, clausal forms, to more compressed, phrasal forms in later rounds of interaction. In Section 5, these findings are discussed with regard to Biber and Clark’s (2002) notion of compression as a change that occurs in reaction to a demand for a large amount of information to be conveyed to an expert audience, allowing language users to be more efficient.