Framing is one of the most popular contemporary theoretical approaches in communication research [REF]. Many studies refer to the concept but sometimes fail to provide definitions, resulting in a diversity of phenomena subsumed under this conceptual umbrella [REF]. This complicates attempts to synthesize theoretical and empirical insights—which has often been described as a problem for communication research [REF]. Systematic reviews aim to help overcome such problems by identifying common trends, locating research gaps, and guiding future research (e.g., for framing: Borah, 2011; Matthes, 2009). However, the reviews available have not made much use of one of the unique characteristics of the framing approach: its bridging potential [REF]. This relates to the fact that framing is able to consider the entire communication process, with all its aspects, and thus bridges different (interdisciplinary) perspectives: strategic communication by a variety of actors (including their cognitions); journalistic cognitions, processing of information, and subsequent reporting; frames of audiences; framing effects; as well as the broader cultural contexts in which frames emerge and compete for attention [REF]. Entman (1993) refers to frame locations in the communication process: the communicator, the text/message, the receiver, and the culture. Here we argue that by systematically reviewing how framing has been applied across frame locations and by elucidating the most salient frames at each location, we gain indications about the cultural framing repository—that is, the (competitive) environment of salient and culturally/cognitively available frames [REF]. Reviewing the literature and assessing a cultural framing repository is best performed when selecting one specific topic for which many studies are available. Here we focus on the framing of climate change [REF] for a number of reasons. (1) Since climate change is one of the most important contemporary global problems [REF], exploring its communication is highly relevant. Audiences continue to rely on a set of different sources to obtain information about the issue but nevertheless find the topic difficult to engage with and understand; in this context, frames also affect (the support for) actions audiences are willing to undertake [REF]. Furthermore, climate change is a special topic due to its unobtrusiveness, complexity, and scientific (un)certainty [REF], as well as the required connections between experts, policy, sources of information, and audiences for combating it: framing is able to “break through the communication barriers” (e.g., Nisbet, 2009, p. 15). Certainly, many scholars also share the normative expectation that studying framing helps develop communication strategies (for target audiences), build consensus, and support actions to fight climate change [REF]. To do this effectively, framing needs to be explored across frame locations. (2) Since research on framing in climate change communication is growing steadily [REF], future research will benefit from a systematic review. Systematic reviews can take stock and guide future research more thoroughly when many studies are published in a specific field. In climate change communication, research has been conducted on communicator’s frames [REF], journalist’s frames [REF], frame content [REF], as well as audiences frames [REF], and framing effects [REF]—allowing for an assessment across frame locations. (3) There is a limited number of systematic reviews available for framing in communication research overall [REF]. Attention should be given to whether common trends observed elsewhere are also evident in framing research on climate change communication. Only then can we assess if there are field-specific applications, which potentially also have implications for studying framing in communication research overall. Indeed, researchers assume that the application of framing varies across subtopics; for instance, there are specific features of framing in health communication [REF]. Fieldspecific insights add to the limited number of studies that systematically examine published literature on framing. Hence, the present study will conduct a systematic review on the framing of climate change and compare findings to those from reviews covering framing in communication research overall [REF]. Furthermore, the present study will focus on the most salient frames across frame locations to harness framing’s potential as an integrative bridging concept. Thus, we aim to connect research on frame production (i.e., frames of communicators and journalists), frame content (i.e., the frames most salient in communication), audience frames, and framing effects— which provides indications of the cultural framing repository and allows identification of the conceptual (mis)fit across frame locations. A misfit means that subsequent studies did not identify or relate to the same frames and thus do not contribute to closing the climate change communication cycle [REF]. Combining quantitative and qualitative approaches of content analysis, this study will draw on 25 years of published literature on climate change framing