German-speaking Switzerland’s linguistic situation has been used as a textbook case for outlining ‘diglossia’ [REF]. Specifically, two context-dependent varieties are used; Alemannic (ALM) dialects, commonly referred to as Swiss German1 or Mundart (verbatim ‘mouth kind’), for oral communication, and Swiss Standard German (SSG), also called Schriftdeutsch (verbatim ‘script German’), for written communication. In other words, in German-speaking Switzerland, everyone is a native speaker of a local dialect while SSG is learned at school. To a certain extent, both ALM and SSG can also be used in the other variety’s domain, and Swiss people generally code-switch quite quickly, indicating that we are not dealing with a standard-dialect continuum [REF]. Given this state of affairs, contact between the two varieties is inevitable, so it is not surprising that research has reported interferences on the phonetic, morphological, syntactic, and lexical level for a long time [REF]. Regarding the specific topic of this study, i.e. vowels, there are only four acoustic studies on ALM dialects [REF]. Regarding SSG, vowels have been described in [REF]]; [REF] provided formant charts based on acoustic measurements. Only one study has compared ALM and SSG in Bern, St Gallen, and Zurich [REF]; however, only the SSG vowels were transcribed auditorily. The current study will thus, for the first time, systematically investigate the vowel qualities of four ALM dialects and their respective SSG varieties with an instrumental phonetic approach, providing a comparative acoustic analysis of the long vowels produced by the same speakers from Bern (BE), Chur (GR), Brig (VS) and Zurich (ZH).2 In particular, it will analyse to which extent SSG vowel qualities are determined by the speakers’ dialect. After a short description of ALM dialects and the SSG varieties spoken in Germanspeaking Switzerland, each variety’s long vowels will be illustrated, followed by a presentation of the research questions and hypotheses that have guided the current study.  Swiss ALM dialects can be put into three subgroups: Low ALM, which can only be found in the city of Basel, High ALM, comprising the dialects of the northern half, and Highest ALM, spoken in the alpine southern half of German-speaking Switzerland [REF]. As High and Highest ALM make up most of the dialects in Germanspeaking Switzerland, this study will focus on these two. High and Highest ALM are defined by an average of multiple isoglosses that tend to divide German-speaking Switzerland into a northern and southern half. The most famous isogloss is hiatus diphthongisation. The northern half,