The Insular Celtic languages have often been described as having a ‘sentence word’ [REF], having a strong group accent which leads to individual word losing their ‘phonological autonomy’1 [REF], or even ‘weakly polysynthetic’ [REF]. All these characterisations relate to the fact that, compared with other European languages, the (early) Insular Celtic languages sport a rather large set of phonologically and morphologically bound formatives—including, among others, incorporated adjectives or adverbs [REF]—and a lot of phonological and morpho-phonological interaction between the elements of a phrase. What these broad descriptions usually lack is a set of criteria that define ‘wordhood’ or ‘phonological autonomy’, and a detailed study of the morphological and phonological boundaries, interdependencies and processes that could define a form of ‘word’ in the respective languages. In this, they concur with contemporary native grammars which do not give a definition of wordhood. Early Irish grammars had no concept corresponding to the modern ‘word’, the basic unit of description being the focal which refers to any kind of syntactic group [REF]. The Middle Welsh grammars have even less to say about words: the unit usually equated with the modern concept, a geir, ‘is made out of syllables’ and geireu ‘are the parts of a correct utterance’ [REF]. The last decades of typological research on wordhood have shown that languages may lack a unified word domain, that is a single phonological, morphological and syntactic entity that could unambiguously be called a word—having no or several conflicting domains is possible. Based on current work [REF], this study will provide a detailed investigation of the potential word-like properties of the verbal complex of Middle Welsh prose, focusing on the manuscripts of the fourteenth and early fifteenth centuries. Poetry will be used to illustrate interesting differences between the two genres or to gain additional insights that cannot be found in prose. The restriction to finite verbal structures is based on Dixon and Aikhenvald's (2002: 14) observation that wordhood patterns may vary between different parts of speech within the same language. The Middle Welsh verbal complex, defined for the purposes of this study as the finite verb and its satellites, as exemplified in (1)2 can contain a variety of more or less grammatical markers, including conjunctions, polarity markers and P- and T-markers. In his particular example, the verbal complex consists of eight markers, starting with a subordinating conjunction can-, followed by a negative marker ny-, an object marker -yand a resultative marker ry-. The lexical root wel- ‘to see’ is then followed by elements familiar from most Indo-European languages, such as a TAM marker -s- and an agreement and TAM marker -ei. The final slot is occupied by a bound pronoun -ef. All of these markers will be discussed in more detail in Section 3. The study is organised into three main parts: Section 2 explains the approach taken in this study, Section 3 discusses the morphological structuring of the verbal complex, and Section 4 discusses the phonological and prosodic processes that operate inside the verbal complex and how they map onto the morphological structure outlined in Section 3. The final Section 5, sums up and discusses the findings and