Imitation is ubiquitous in humans. It has been argued to be a fundamentally important capacity for human culture [REF] and a developmental basis for language and cognitive skills [REF], representing a powerful learning mechanism for human beings, whether infants or adults. The present study expands on previous research on imitative abilities and investigates the role played by different types of imitation skills (language-based multimodal imitation vs. object-based imitation) that have thus far rarely been assessed together. It also contributes to the literature on the imitation abilities of young preschoolers, an age group in whom important linguistic and social developmental advances take place and which has hitherto not been actively studied in the field of imitation abilities. To our knowledge, this is the first time that the relationship between different types of imitation is investigated in relation to linguistic and pragmatic skills in preschool children. We will start by briefly reviewing the previous literature on the relationship between imitative behaviors and language and sociopragmatic abilities, making the case that language-based imitation should be assessed from a socially relevant multimodal perspective. Imitation skills, understood as the ability to intentionally replicate others’ behaviors or actions, play a fundamental role in the development of language and how it is used in social contexts (i.e., social communication). Numerous empirical and longitudinal studies have shown that spontaneous imitative behaviors which naturally occur in language interactions during the first and second year of life (specifically between 9 and 24 months), as well as elicited imitation behaviors, are key for language production and comprehension [REF], the acquisition of vocabulary [REF], and social communication behaviors such as interactive actions like requesting or greeting [REF]. In relation to language production and comprehension skills, Bates et al. (1979) performed a correlational study with 9- to 13-month-old infants and reported a strong link between vocal imitation (i.e., imitation of sounds and words) and language production and comprehension at this stage of development. Hanika and Boyer (2019) demonstrated that motor imitation behaviors (like clapping hands or pushing a toy car across a table) in infants between 15 and 18 months have a unique relationship to language comprehension skills. In relation to the acquisition of vocabulary, in a study with children from 9 through 15 months, Carpenter et al. (1998) observed a positive relationship between the age when infants began to imitate arbitrary actions involving physical objects (e.g., hitting the side of a box or patting the top of a box with one hand) and the age when they began to use referential language (i.e., words used to refer to specific actions or objects). Masur and Eichorst (2002) showed that infants that imitated more novel words at 13 months had larger lexicons at 17 months and 21 months, demonstrating that a higher frequency in the imitation of novel words at 13 months predicted infants’ later lexical development. Snow (1989) concluded that vocal and gestural imitation abilities at 14 months were significantly correlated with language skills (i.e., the number of verbs produced or total productive vocabulary) at 20 months. As for the relationship with sociopragmatic skills, Dohmen et al. (2016) carried out a longitudinal study with 29