Framing is one of the most popular contemporary theoretical approaches in communication research [REF]. Many studies refer to the concept but sometimes fail to provide definitions, resulting in a diversity of phenomena subsumed under this conceptual umbrella [REF]. This complicates attempts to synthesize theoretical and empirical insights—which has often been described as a problem for communication research [REF]. Systematic reviews aim to help overcome such problems by identifying common trends, locating research gaps, and guiding future research (e.g., for framing: Borah, 2011; Matthes, 2009). However, the reviews available have not made much use of one of the unique characteristics of the framing approach: its bridging potential [REF]. This relates to the fact that framing is able to consider the entire communication process, with all its aspects, and thus bridges different (interdisciplinary) perspectives: strategic communication by a variety of actors (including their cognitions); journalistic cognitions, processing of information, and subsequent reporting; frames of audiences; framing effects; as well as the broader cultural contexts in which frames emerge and compete for attention [REF]. Entman (1993) refers to frame locations in the communication process: the communicator, the text/message, the receiver, and the culture. Here we argue that by systematically reviewing how framing has been applied across frame locations and by elucidating the most salient frames at each location, we gain indications about the cultural framing repository—that is, the (competitive) environment of salient and culturally/cognitively available frames [REF]. Reviewing the literature and assessing a cultural framing repository is best performed when selecting one specific topic for which many studies are available. Here we focus on the framing of climate change [REF] for a number of reasons. (1) Since climate change is one of the most important contemporary global problems [REF], exploring its communication is highly relevant. Audiences continue to rely on a set of different sources to obtain information about the issue but nevertheless find the topic difficult to engage with and understand; in this context, frames also affect (the support for) actions audiences are willing to undertake [REF]. Furthermore, climate change is a special topic due to its unobtrusiveness, complexity, and scientific (un)certainty [REF], as well as the required connections between experts, policy, sources of information, and audiences for combating it: framing is able to “break through the communication barriers” (e.g., Nisbet, 2009, p. 15). Certainly, many scholars also share the normative expectation that studying framing helps develop communication strategies (for target audiences), build consensus, and support actions to fight