too expensive by comparison - with the result that once opened they deteriorate quickly and wind up in the trash can . To be more precise , food worth approximately four billion Swiss francs - equivalent to around 1,050 Swiss francs per household - ends up in domestic waste every year in Switzerland . In addition , more than 50 percent of household garbage comprises food packaging , which is often used solely for decorative or advertising purposes . This is equivalent to an annual volume of food packaging waste of 3.6 million tons or 450 kg per resident . Seeland-based start-up firm innveri has come up with a new packaging system that is due to be launched on the Swiss market in spring 2012 . To be sold via retailers as well as directly , the new product gives food the best possible protection against the proliferation of germs and bacteria , as well as enables it to retain its visual appeal and quality - thereby ensuring it enjoys a longer shelf life . Compared with conventional methods of preservation , food can be consumed for a period between twice and 20 times as long . In turn , this means the food actually ends up being eaten rather than thrown in the trash can . It therefore makes an important contribution to waste reduction . innveri 's packaging system can be used for fresh produce , packaging that has been opened , as well as cooked food . What 's innovative about the product is firstly that the active packaging - which was only used in industry in the past - can now be made readily accessible to households ; second , it does not involve the production of any waste , or the consumption of any electricity . innveri 's new secondary packaging solution is a substitute for the simple , limited options that have existed to date : aluminum foil , Tupperware , and small plastic bags , for instance . " What 's important about the product concept is that when utilizing the new packaging system the customer recognizes familiar elements , that this world first is very easy and quick to use , and that it all works as a high-quality , cutting-edge system solution rather than an individual product , " says Manfred Jüni . One example he mentions is the Nespresso system , where high-quality products , customer service , and customer loyalty are key factors . It all began six years ago , when Manfred Jüni was studying engineering sciences and mechanical engineering at the University of Applied Sciences in Fribourg . As a student , he frequently ate ready meals that merely required heating-up , or prepared dishes such as washed and ready-to-eat salads . Buying and consuming all these neatly pre-packed fresh foods and oven-ready meals one day got Manfred Jüni thinking about whether it would be possible to seal the packaging again after it had been opened , to enable it to remain in the same condition as when we took it home from the grocery store . Or , in addition , whether fresh or cooked foods could be packaged in the same , attractive way as we find them on the shelves every day . This is how the idea of the product concept - due to be launched on the market in the spring - was born , and how the history of innveri