Compared with traditional methods of gathering data that are slow , expensive and limited - like travel behavior or quality-of-life surveys typically done by city governments - Big Data approaches enabled by Internet technologies make it faster , cheaper and easier to gather and analyze larger quantities of data than ever before . At the same time , Big Data poses new kinds of risks to personal privacy , many of which we are only just starting to appreciate . These risks range from merely annoying - people knowing more about you than they need to - to harmful : people wrongly inferring things about you based on your data , or worse . In the long term , the question of privacy could prove one of the biggest barriers to uptake for Big Data solutions . Feelings about privacy run deep in the industrialized West , but the concept of a legal right to privacy - in the US at least - is actually quite recent . Indeed , privacy is not explicitly mentioned in the US Constitution , and whether it is implied is currently a matter of active legal debate . In fact , the right to privacy as such first appeared in an 1890 article in the " Harvard Law Review " by attorneys Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis . They wished to protest the invasion of domestic life by " instantaneous photographs " and sensational journalism , and advocated " the right to be let alone . " US laws governing privacy are generally sector-specific and reflect the country 's impulse toward self-regulation . The Privacy Act of 1974 protects certain federal government records pertaining to individuals , such as records retrievable by social security numbers . Other laws regulate the use and disclosure of health information ( 1996 ) , videotape sales and rentals ( 1998 ) , financial privacy ( 1999 ) and the collection of information from children under 13 ( 2000 ) . The Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) has been the main instrument for enforcing the law . In February of this year , for example , the mobile social network Path was fined 800,000 US dollars for collecting data from children without parental consent . In November 2012 , Google settled with the FTC for a record 22.5 million US dollars for bypassing privacy settings in certain web browsers . Unlike the US , Europe takes a much more comprehensive - and preventive - approach to privacy protection . The 1950 European Convention on Human Rights explicitly guaranteed respect of one 's " private and family life , his home and his correspondence . " Moreover , the European Union requires all its member states to ensure citizens ' right to privacy . The EU is currently revising its 1995 Data Protection Directive in favor of a single law for all states and to take into account globalization and new technologies like social networks and the cloud . The law 's provisions include requiring companies to obtain individuals ' explicit consent before processing their data , giving online users the " right to be forgotten " - i.e. to delete their data - and fining offending companies up to 2 percent of global turnover . The draft General Data Protection Regulation is welcome in many quarters . But it has also sparked concern among companies and lobbying by the US over what they see as the administrative burden of implementing it . In the meantime , the data technology landscape is rapidly evolving . Researchers have been working on custom camera-based systems that can be deployed in real-world advertisements , making it possible for advertisers to know how many people are looking at their ads