volatility . 3 . Worsening crisis possibly leading to a break-up of EMU . The following important points describe this scenario : Implementation of joint fiscal policies ( more automatic transfers from strong to weak regions ) . Joint guarantees for bonds issued by member governments . Share of guaranteed bonds to be determined ; initial proposal was for up to 60 percent of GDP . Central supervision of budgetary policies , strict enforcement of Maastricht deficit and debt rules . EMU back on a growth track . This scenario can be regarded as the most positive for financial markets and particularly for risky assets . A rapid decrease in volatility and an increase in risk appetite is expected in this case , as well as declining liquidity and counterparty risks . A rally in all risky assets ( stocks and credits ) would likely follow , with rapid spread narrowing on corporate ( financial and non-financial ) bonds as well as emerging market ( EM ) and high yield ( HY ) bonds , as the ECB would likely keep interest rates unchanged . Across the sovereign bonds universe , an increase in German , Swiss and US government bond yields ( more limited increase in French yields ) is anticipated as safe-haven flows would be unwound , while Italian , Spanish and other " peripheral " yields would immediately decline . Across currencies , the US dollar and Swiss franc would depreciate , while the euro appreciates . The " Muddling through " scenario can be described as follows : Controlled Greek debt restructuring in several stages . Erratic , grinding , slow recovery of confidence , with setbacks spread out over a long period , since the underlying debt problem is not resolved . EFSF changes approved in the course of the autumn , fiscal consolidation plans implemented in high debt countries , potential international add-on to EFSF at later stage . Bank sector re-capitalizations in Europe where needed . ECB provides continued " bridging " support ( provision of US dollar and euro liquidity , modest purchases of sovereign peripheral bonds ) and may cut interest rates . EMU growth slows due to more restrictive fiscal policy but recession avoided due to easier monetary policy . G3-growth ( US , Japan and Europe ) stays structurally low , but recession is avoided thanks to easy monetary policy , resilient non-financial corporate earnings , slowing but robust emerging market economic growth . In this scenario , market volatility gradually moves lower , but with periodic spikes on bad news . Liquidity and counterparty risk gradually declines . Bund yields remain fairly low , and Italian , Spanish yields decline slightly . Credit spreads remain in a wide trading range at elevated levels , particularly in lower-rated segments . US and EM stocks outperform initially in the equity universe , while bank stocks continue to underperform until re-capitalizations are implemented . Currencies remain generally range-bound , with the euro / US dollar in a broad 1.30 - 1.40 trading range . The euro / Swiss franc lower bound holds , and the Swiss franc weakens only gradually . Cyclical commodities with low single-digit returns are compatible with the economic scenario that is part of this scenario , while gold continues to offer moderate upside . Derivatives strategies are more complicated to execute as hedging / structuring remains difficult . The likelihood of a 2011 restructuring of Greek