This clinical case describes a 21-year-old female patient who has been diagnosed with Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS). SWS is a rare neurological disorder characterized by the presence of a facial birthmark, neurological abnormalities, and eye involvement.

The patient presented with non-pulsating headaches that had been occurring frequently for the past two years. These headaches were relieved by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and did not worsen with physical activity. There were no accompanying symptoms such as nausea or aura. The pain was described as bilateral, generalized, and pressing in quality.

The patient had a history of seizures since the fifteenth day of life, which led to her diagnosis of SWS. At six years old, she underwent callosotomy surgery to control her seizures. However, at 18 years old, she experienced another seizure after laser treatment for her port wine birthmark. Since then, she has been prescribed carbamazepine and has remained seizure-free.

In terms of cognitive development, the patient had normal development in infancy but struggled academically and is considered to be mildly mentally retarded according to intelligence testing.

On physical examination, a facial nevus (birthmark) was observed on the right side of her forehead, eyelid, nasal wing, and cheek. Intraoral examination showed overgrowth of gingiva (gums) on the right side that appeared angiomatous (related to blood vessels). Mild asymmetry was noted in her extremities; specifically her left arm and leg were smaller than their counterparts on the right side. She also exhibited hemiparesis (weakness) on both sides of this smaller portion.

Ophthalmological evaluation revealed glaucoma in her right eye. Psychiatric examination indicated signs of an anxiety disorder.

Neurological examination did not show any remarkable findings except for the hemiparesis previously mentioned. Cranial CT scans showed diffuse atrophy (shrinkage) in the right hemisphere and irregular double-contoured gyriform cortical calcifications (abnormal calcium deposits) in the right occipital area. Gadolinium-enhanced brain MRI revealed multiple dilated pial venous vascular structures on the right hemisphere, as well as diffuse atrophy on the same side.

Additional findings from the MRI included right calvarial thickness compared to the left and asymmetrically smaller size of the right hemisphere. Extensive venous formations were seen around the corpus of the right lateral ventricle, Gallen vein localization, perivascular space anterior to third ventricle at Willis polygon localization, and in the right temporooccipital area at quadrigeminal cistern localization.

In summary, this patient with SWS presented with frequent non-pulsating headaches relieved by NSAIDs. She had a history of seizures and underwent callosotomy surgery but experienced another seizure after laser treatment for her birthmark. She also exhibited cognitive impairment and various physical findings including facial nevus, gingival overgrowth, hemiparesis, glaucoma in her right eye, and extensive vascular formations observed on imaging studies.