This clinical case involves a 21-year-old female patient with a diagnosis of Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS). The patient presented with a history of frequent non-pulsating headaches for the past two years. The headaches were relieved by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and were not worsened by physical activity. There were no accompanying symptoms of nausea or aura. The headaches lasted for hours and were bilateral, generalized, and pressing in quality.

The patient also had a history of seizures since the fifteenth day of life, which led to the diagnosis of SWS. At the age of 6, she underwent a callosotomy procedure to control her seizures. However, at the age of 18, she experienced a seizure following a laser treatment for her port wine birthmark. Since then, she has been prescribed carbamazepine and has remained seizure-free. Developmentally, the patient had normal infancy, but her academic performance was poor, and she struggled with literacy.

In terms of family history, there were no significant findings other than the patient's elder sister having a port wine stain on her face. The elder sister did not have SWS, and no further investigations were done regarding her birthmark. The patient was also diagnosed with an anxiety disorder and was prescribed ketiapin and venlafaxine for anxiety and chronic headaches, respectively. She was also prescribed non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.

After a week of treatment, the patient reported a slight decrease in the heaviness of her headaches, but the frequency remained the same. Physical examination revealed a facial nevus (a birthmark) on the right forehead, right eyelid, nasal wing, and cheek. Intraoral examination showed an angiomatous enlargement of the right-sided gingiva, which appeared bright red and showed blanching upon pressure. The patient also had mild asymmetry in her extremities, with her left arm and leg being slightly smaller in size and showing hemiparesis (weakness or paralysis) on the same side. An ophthalmological evaluation revealed glaucoma in the right eye.

Psychiatric examination confirmed the presence of an anxiety disorder, while the neurological examination did not reveal any remarkable findings except for the hemiparesis. Cranial CT scans showed diffuse atrophy in the right hemisphere and irregular double-contoured gyriform cortical calcifications in the right occipital area. Gadolinium-enhanced brain MRI revealed multiple dilated pial venous vascular structures on the right hemisphere, along with diffuse atrophy on the same side.

Additional findings from the MRI included right calvarial thickness compared to the left, asymmetrically smaller right hemisphere, extensive venous formations around the corpus of the right lateral ventricle, widespread vascular formations in the perivascular space, and localized areas in the right temporooccipital area.

The patient underwent a proteus intelligence test, which yielded a score of 75, indicating mild mental retardation.