Case 1 describes a male infant from the Gbayi tribe who was delivered at term. At birth, it was noticed that the baby had an absence of skin and skull bone on the vertex of the scalp. The baby had low set ears, irritability, tense anterior fontanelle, and respiratory distress. A diagnosis of aplasia cutis congenita with possible meningitis was made. The baby received routine care including oxygen, intravenous fluids, antibiotics for meningitis, and wound dressing. Multidisciplinary team management involving neurosurgeons and plastic surgeons was done. Imaging tests showed absence of parietal bone towards the vertex bilaterally but normal brain structures elsewhere. Plans were made for future intervention to raise a flap cover for autologous skin grafting.

Case 2 involves a Hausa baby referred at 48 hours of life due to an absence of part of the skull bone noticed at birth. The delivery was not associated with head trauma, but no obstetric scan was done during pregnancy. The baby presented with multiple clinical findings including febrile illness, cyanosis, hypertonicity, subcutaneous tissue defect in the scalp with CSF leakage suggesting dural involvement, desquamating skin hypoplastic finger/toenails, dilated abdominal wall veins and a grade 3 systolic cardiac murmur consistent with ventricular septal defect (congenital heart disease). A provisional diagnosis of multiple congenital anomalies including aplasia cutis congenita and ventricular septal defect along with meningitis was made.

Unfortunately due to financial constraints further diagnostic tests like brain MRI imaging or chromosomal studies could not be performed in Case 2; however sepsis screen yielded Providencia species and E.coli from blood and CSF respectively.

Both cases highlight infants born with cranial defects known as aplasia cutis congenita - which is characterized by partial or complete absence of skin and sometimes underlying skull bone. In Case 1, the defect was limited to the vertex of the scalp bilaterally, whereas in Case 2 it involved a larger area extending from frontal to occipital regions with CSF leakage.

In both cases, multidisciplinary team management involving neurosurgeons and plastic surgeons was planned for future interventions such as autologous skin grafting or flap cover using mesh and musculocutaneous flap respectively.

It is important to note that while Case 1 had a monogamous consanguineous family setting (parents being cousins) with a history of stillbirth in the mother's first confinement, there was no known family history of congenital anomalies. In contrast, Case 2 had non-consanguineous parents with no known family history of congenital anomalies.

Unfortunately, in Case 2 financial constraints limited further diagnostic tests and despite treatment during hospitalization including parenteral antibiotics for meningitis and wound care for aplasia cutis congenita complications such as CSF leakage resolved over time; however the baby died seven days after discharge.