Case 1: Baby NU is a male infant who was delivered at term in a hospital. At birth, it was noticed that he had an absence of skin and skull bone on the vertex of his scalp. The pregnancy was supervised and uneventful, and the mother did not use any medications except for antenatal drugs. There was no history of congenital anomalies in the extended family. Physical examination revealed a large defect on the scalp with a yellow layer of membrane covering it. The baby also had low set ears, irritability, tense anterior fontanelle, and respiratory distress. A diagnosis of aplasia cutis congenita with possible meningitis was made.

The baby received routine care including oxygen, intravenous fluids, antibiotics for meningitis, and dressing with sofra-tulle and normal saline soaked gauze. The respiratory distress improved, oral feeds were started and tolerated well. A multidisciplinary team including neurosurgeons and plastic surgeons managed the case.

Imaging studies showed absence of parietal bone towards the vertex bilaterally extending from behind the anterior fontanelle to the posterior fontanelle. The brain in this region was overlaid by dural meninges but other brain structures were normal.

Future intervention plans included raising a flap cover for autologous skin grafting.

Case 2: Baby YA is a Hausa male infant who was referred at 48 hours old due to an absence of part of his skull bone noticed at birth. He was delivered at home without trauma to the head. Clinical findings included fever, cyanosis (bluish discoloration), hypertonicity (increased muscle tone), subcutaneous tissue defect on the scalp extending from frontal to occipital area with leakage of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). He also had desquamating skin (skin peeling), hypoplastic finger and toe nails, dilated abdominal wall veins, and a grade 3 systolic cardiac murmur.

A working diagnosis of multiple congenital anomalies including aplasia cutis congenita, ventricular septal defect (congenital heart disease), and meningitis was made. Sepsis screen revealed bacterial infections in the blood and CSF. Abdominal ultrasound scan was normal but further imaging studies and chromosomal studies could not be done due to financial constraints.

The baby received treatment with antibiotics for the infection and wound care for the scalp defect. Complications included CSF leakage and meningitis, which resolved over time. Plans were made for surgical intervention with mesh cover and flap cover, but unfortunately, the baby died 7 days after discharge from the hospital.

In both cases, aplasia cutis congenita was present, which is a condition characterized by partial or complete absence of skin on certain areas of the body at birth. It can occur as an isolated finding or be associated with other congenital anomalies or genetic syndromes. In Case 1, there was also a possible diagnosis of meningitis associated with the scalp defect.