volatility . 3 . Worsening crisis possibly leading to a break-up of EMU . The following important points describe this scenario : Implementation of joint fiscal policies ( more automatic transfers from strong to weak regions ) . Joint guarantees for bonds issued by member governments . Share of guaranteed bonds to be determined ; initial proposal was for up to 60 percent of GDP . Central supervision of budgetary policies , strict enforcement of Maastricht deficit and debt rules . EMU back on a growth track . This scenario can be regarded as the most positive for financial markets and particularly for risky assets . A rapid decrease in volatility and an increase in risk appetite is expected in this case , as well as declining liquidity and counterparty risks . A rally in all risky assets ( stocks and credits ) would likely follow , with rapid spread narrowing on corporate ( financial and non-financial ) bonds as well as emerging market ( EM ) and high yield ( HY ) bonds , as the ECB would likely keep interest rates unchanged . Across the sovereign bonds universe , an increase in German , Swiss and US government bond yields ( more limited increase in French yields ) is anticipated as safe-haven flows would be unwound , while Italian , Spanish and other " peripheral " yields would immediately decline . Across currencies , the US dollar and Swiss franc would depreciate , while the euro appreciates . The " Muddling through " scenario can be described as follows : Controlled Greek debt restructuring in several stages . Erratic , grinding , slow recovery of confidence , with setbacks spread out over a long period , since the underlying debt problem is not resolved . EFSF changes approved in the course of the autumn , fiscal consolidation plans implemented in high debt countries , potential international add-on to EFSF at later stage . Bank sector re-capitalizations in Europe where needed . ECB provides continued " bridging " support ( provision of US dollar and euro liquidity , modest purchases of sovereign peripheral bonds ) and may cut interest rates . EMU growth slows due to more restrictive fiscal policy but recession avoided due to easier monetary policy . G3-growth ( US , Japan and Europe ) stays structurally low , but recession is avoided thanks to easy monetary policy , resilient non-financial corporate earnings , slowing but robust emerging market economic growth . In this scenario , market volatility gradually moves lower , but with periodic spikes on bad news . Liquidity and counterparty risk gradually declines . Bund yields remain fairly low , and Italian , Spanish yields decline slightly . Credit spreads remain in a wide trading range at elevated levels , particularly in lower-rated segments . US and EM stocks outperform initially in the equity universe , while bank stocks continue to underperform until re-capitalizations are implemented . Currencies remain generally range-bound , with the euro / US dollar in a broad 1.30 - 1.40 trading range . The euro / Swiss franc lower bound holds , and the Swiss franc weakens only gradually . Cyclical commodities with low single-digit returns are compatible with the economic scenario that is part of this scenario , while gold continues to offer moderate upside . Derivatives strategies are more complicated to execute as hedging / structuring remains difficult . The likelihood of a 2011 restructuring of Greek debt that goes beyond the terms of the current debt exchange with a haircut of 50-60 percent has increased . Such a scenario would consist of the following steps : Substantial initial increase in risk aversion as bank stocks would remain under pressure and a restructuring of other weak countries ' ( Portugal ) debt could not be excluded . Bank sector re capitalizations in Europe with potential Euro-TARP ( Troubled Asset Relief Fund ) and foreign ( Gulf , Asia ) participation would be necessary , and be part of a " grand solution " that would come along with such a scenario . ECB steps up its " bridging " support ( large-scale purchase of peripheral sovereign bonds ) , providing unlimited liquidity to the banking sector and possibly cut interest rates . Fiscal consolidation plans would still have to be implemented in high debt countries . In a second phase , this scenario would contain quite a bullish aspect as it would put Greek public finances back on a sustainable path , with Greece staying in EMU . As in scenario 2A , it is expected that EMU growth would slow due to more restrictive fiscal policy , but recession to be avoided due to easier monetary policy . G3-growth would likely stay structurally low but recession would be avoided thanks to easy monetary policy , resilient non-financial corporate earnings and slowing but robust ; emerging market economic growth . This scenario is characterized by a strong risk-off bout followed by a major risk-on phase . Volatility temporarily spikes up and then moves lower after policy response . Liquidity and counterparty risks spike up and then gradually decline . Initially , government benchmark bond yields ( Bund , US , Swiss Eidgenossen ) decline further , but then normalize again in a low trading range . Italian , Spanish yields decline after period of high volatility as do credit spreads . Stocks underperform until bank re-capitalizations are implemented . The euro / US dollar initially comes under pressure within a broad 1.30 - 1.40 trading range and the euro / Swiss franc lower bound holds . Cyclical commodities first come under pressure , then recover . Gold is temporarily strongly up . This scenario could include a moderate worsening of the current situation , or a more dramatic outcome . The exit of one country ( Greece ) from EMU would lead to temporary turmoil , the exit of Germany or others would cause a major crisis . In the latter ( worst case ) , it could be expected : Acute collapse of trust in Europe leading to credit crunch and global recession . Default of weaker Eurozone countries . Deposit freezes to avoid bank runs ( as occurred in Argentina about a decade ago ) . " New D-Mark " would appreciate sharply , " rump euro " would depreciate sharply . ECB would need to provide massive liquidity to support banking systems . Other central banks would also need to provide support . This scenario can be generally qualified as a " risk-off " scenario as it would be unfavorable to risky assets . Strong increases in market volatility , European stocks falling to or below 2009 levels and a rally in government benchmark bond yields ( Bund , US , Swiss Eidgenossen ) would be likely . Credit spreads would widen sharply as default risks rise . Liquidity stress and counterparty risk would likely surge , as bank collapses get priced in. Derivatives / structured strategies become near-impossible to implement . The SNB could possibly not defend its 1.20 target effectively and the Swiss franc would appreciate against the euro . The US dollar and the Japanese yen would also strengthen while the euro drops until membership clarified ( investment returns in euro-denominated assets determined by legal jurisdiction and contractual details more than asset class ) . Cyclical commodities would fall sharply . Probability ranges for each scenario are indicative , and will likely change over time to reflect the sequential developments that will take place in the coming weeks and months . However , in advance of the announcement of any concrete steps , this analysis of the most likely scenarios that lie ahead for the Eurozone leaves " Scenario 1 , " a full fiscal union and the introduction of a Eurobond market as the most favorable , but rather unlikely scenario . The least desirable outcome is " Scenario 3 , " which could lead to a major global crisis and therefore is also relatively unlikely to be allowed to unfold . Reality is likely to be somewhere in between these two outcomes , with Europe muddling its way through its debt and currency challenges .