too expensive by comparison - with the result that once opened they deteriorate quickly and wind up in the trash can . To be more precise , food worth approximately four billion Swiss francs - equivalent to around 1,050 Swiss francs per household - ends up in domestic waste every year in Switzerland . In addition , more than 50 percent of household garbage comprises food packaging , which is often used solely for decorative or advertising purposes . This is equivalent to an annual volume of food packaging waste of 3.6 million tons or 450 kg per resident . Seeland-based start-up firm innveri has come up with a new packaging system that is due to be launched on the Swiss market in spring 2012 . To be sold via retailers as well as directly , the new product gives food the best possible protection against the proliferation of germs and bacteria , as well as enables it to retain its visual appeal and quality - thereby ensuring it enjoys a longer shelf life . Compared with conventional methods of preservation , food can be consumed for a period between twice and 20 times as long . In turn , this means the food actually ends up being eaten rather than thrown in the trash can . It therefore makes an important contribution to waste reduction . innveri 's packaging system can be used for fresh produce , packaging that has been opened , as well as cooked food . What 's innovative about the product is firstly that the active packaging - which was only used in industry in the past - can now be made readily accessible to households ; second , it does not involve the production of any waste , or the consumption of any electricity . innveri 's new secondary packaging solution is a substitute for the simple , limited options that have existed to date : aluminum foil , Tupperware , and small plastic bags , for instance . " What 's important about the product concept is that when utilizing the new packaging system the customer recognizes familiar elements , that this world first is very easy and quick to use , and that it all works as a high-quality , cutting-edge system solution rather than an individual product , " says Manfred Jüni . One example he mentions is the Nespresso system , where high-quality products , customer service , and customer loyalty are key factors . It all began six years ago , when Manfred Jüni was studying engineering sciences and mechanical engineering at the University of Applied Sciences in Fribourg . As a student , he frequently ate ready meals that merely required heating-up , or prepared dishes such as washed and ready-to-eat salads . Buying and consuming all these neatly pre-packed fresh foods and oven-ready meals one day got Manfred Jüni thinking about whether it would be possible to seal the packaging again after it had been opened , to enable it to remain in the same condition as when we took it home from the grocery store . Or , in addition , whether fresh or cooked foods could be packaged in the same , attractive way as we find them on the shelves every day . This is how the idea of the product concept - due to be launched on the market in the spring - was born , and how the history of innveri and the associated dream of self-employment and entrepreneurship became a reality . Six years later , innveri now has its head office in Murten on the Roland bakery site . Although pretzel sticks and rusks are still manufactured in a building on the site , Roland has relocated a lot of its office premises . That is how young entrepreneur Jüni found space here for innveri . The 28-year-old employs four people and shares the office with his brother , who is also a young entrepreneur and co-owner of MJ2B Architekten AG ( which occasionally helps out with graphics work ) . It 's an emotional time for innveri : The idea Manfred Jüni has been working on tirelessly for years will soon be on the shelves of selected stores . At an early stage , Jüni received support from the IVE ( Institute for Value-based Enterprise ) in Fribourg . For more than three years , he has been assisted by the Institute 's Claude Piccot and Osama Rifai . Claude Piccot is currently Chairman of the Board of Directors and Osama Rifai CFO of innveri AG . Jüni has also received support from Diepoldsau-based Noventa AG , now innveri 's main production partner . It 's been a long journey , with big challenges , as well as highs and lows . " Besides the technical aspects , one of the biggest challenges was funding and the associated convincing that needed to be done . On that front , there 's still room for improvement in Switzerland and within the canton . The active support given to early-stage firms in the form of government start-up capital to promote entrepreneurship and create jobs needs to be sharply increased . At a later stage , when they have achieved some progress , these firms can then approach private-sector institutions or investors , " says Jüni . Although Jüni is busy working on the launch of his new packaging system , innveri is also involved in a pilot project with the city of Berne that is aimed at cutting the volume of disposable packaging used in takeaways . In a second stage , the objective is to reduce the litter problem and associated waste mountains across all Switzerland 's urban areas . It 's a small step toward eradicating the countless millions of tons of waste that we burden our planet with every year .