center has to be cooled . And it has to be secure from intrusion , whether over the Internet or physically by someone driving through the front door . Well , with multi-core processors , it is n't a million pizza boxes that get you to a million servers . But it is still a huge number , easily in the range of a small city in terms of the power demand that they have . Such a facility is often deployed in a part of the country where electricity is relatively inexpensive , and there is a surplus . No , and you usually do n't . It is crucial to have some diversity in the connection that you have to the utility company . If someone digs up a power line , you do n't want an entire million-processor data center to go offline . Also , you have to be careful that it saves whatever it is doing at the time . So , built into the data center are backup power supplies , typically rooms full of batteries that decouple the operation from the utility company , giving them enough time to run for a few minutes before shutting down . Typically , there are diesel generators , but they are there for support for a few hours while , first of all , everything is rationally backed up , and second , the data center works with the utility company toward the restoration of power . Things will go down ; there 's no question about that . In an earthquake or other natural disaster , what are you going to do ? If you 're Google or Microsoft or Amazon , you do n't have one million-computer centers , you have many of them spread around the world . And you have the software architecture that gracefully redirects the work to the other data centers in the event that one of your data centers has such a problem . PUE is the ratio of total energy consumed by the data center - cooling , air-conditioning and electricity distribution - compared with the total energy consumed by the IT equipment alone . Typically , leading-edge centers are running at PUEs of 1.2 or 1.25 , which means the electrical overhead is only 25 percent on top of the IT equipment . Five years ago , the PUE was more like 4 or 5 , an overhead of 400 percent . We 've made tremendous advances in reducing the relative energy consumption of these support functions . The focus now is on reducing the footprint of the servers themselves - by far the most expensive component of running a data center . That 's one of the ideas from our ( LoCal energy ) project . Because of the size , scale and timeliness of information , it 's hard to drive your million computers to very high levels of use . They are sitting there , powered on , but only being used maybe 30 percent of the time . " Doing nothing well " means , if you have nothing to do , at least do it with very little power being consumed . Unfortunately , that 's not the way computer servers work today . They do n't really go to sleep . Our mobile phones and our laptop computers are much better at doing nothing well . 1.5 percent sounds like a big number , but I believe it is comparable to the world 's airline travel . And I challenge you , how many hours a month do you spend on an airplane , and how many hours do you spend online , with all that data center processing going on in the background for your benefit , like credit card transactions ? That does n't mean we are n't interested in making our data centers as energy efficient as possible . A lot of these companies are good corporate citizens , seeking out cleaner energy and looking to exploit renewable or alternate energy sources . We have to distinguish here between the companies that are operating clouds , like Amazon 's EC2 , and companies that are deploying their computing into clouds . For the former , they are in the business of making money . For the latter , I believe their incentive is to save money . If you deploy your website into the cloud , you pay a little most of the year , and pay what you need to when demand is greatest , say between Thanksgiving and Christmas . If you do that , then you are going to save a lot of money . My criteria would be customer base , Internet connectivity and electricity cost . The best connectivity tends to be found along the national highway system , as that 's where all the cables have been laid . A lot of famous Internet companies have built due east of Seattle in Washington State , which has a lot of cheap hydroelectric power , a nice renewable source . A bunch have built in the hill country of North Carolina , not too far from major north-south connectivity for the East Coast and Southeast . The fastest growth for Internet access today is Africa . It started from a small base - mainly access for mobile phones to the Internet - but it is growing the fastest and it is probably the least well-served by local deployment of data centers . I would probably consider South Africa , but I might choose some place like Kenya , which would be a good mix of reasonable infrastructure , stable economy , good connectivity , good workforce and proximity to where the majority of my customers for Internet access and services in Africa might be . Well , I do n't know about data centers , but companies like IBM and Google have been building up their presence in Africa . Certainly the Chinese are very visible there . So I think Nairobi and Cape Town , for example , are probable locations for the next wave of data centers . At some point we 'll have enough data centers that virtually the entire world will be a relatively short distance from one - at least as electrons travel . And then it 's really just a question of continuing to upgrade those existing data centers with the newest technology that replaces a single server with two servers in the same space , two servers with four and so on . Connectivity would be a pretty big challenge for something deployed in space or the air . And data centers are pretty heavy . One idea put forward is : does it make sense to put a million computers under one roof , or is there an alternative , which is to put a million computers one at a time in people 's closets ? In other words , Google gives you a computer that is also used to execute cloud services . I 'm kind of skeptical , but people are talking about it as a conceivable alternative future .