with a market capitalization of over 50 million US dollars reviewed in this study were listed only after 2000 . This should be largely attributable to the much more early stage of their lifecycles and the less-developed capital markets in the Asian region . In Asia , many family businesses are first generation businesses , in contrast with many family businesses in Europe and the USA , which are already in their fourth or even fifth generation . Their early lifecycle development stage underpins a growth bias among Asian family businesses . Total market capitalization of Asian family businesses in the study has increased roughly six-fold between 2000 and 2010 . This partly reflects the entrepreneurial drive of early stage family businesses to seek for growth opportunities through fundraising in the capital markets , and the rapid development of the Asian capital market since the Asian financial crisis in 1997 - 98 . The study finds that Asian family businesses tend to be more prevalent in the traditional sectors , especially Financials ( banks and real estate ) , Industrials , Consumer Discretionary and Consumer Staple sectors , given family-controlled management proves historically to be conservative in innovation and investment in high-risk new businesses . Only South Korea , Taiwan and India witnessed higher concentration of technology-related family businesses due to the technology-driven industrial structure in these economies . Asian family businesses have very limited exposure to the capital intensive energy , telecom services and utilities sectors . This is mainly due to the lack of access for Asian family businesses to gain control over these highly regulated and state monopolized industries . The more risk averse investment strategy of family firms also accounts for their prudent attitude in considering investment opportunities in these capital intensive industries . The analysis finds that family businesses are the backbone of the Asian economies , as they represent about 50 percent of all listed companies in the study universe . In terms of regional distribution , the study finds higher concentration of family businesses in South Asia at 65 percent of the total number of listed companies , compared to 37 percent in North Asia . India is home to the largest number of family businesses reviewed in the study , accounting for 67 percent of all listed companies while Chinese family businesses account for the lowest percentage ( 13 percent ) due to the country 's state-owned economic structure . As employers , family businesses account for 57 percent and 32 percent of all employees hired by listed companies in South Asia and North Asia respectively . However , as a percentage of the total labor force , they contribute only 0.7 percent and 1.0 percent respectively , a reflection of the fact that the bulk of employment in Asia is accounted for by the public sector , unlisted firms and self-employment . Family businesses are heavily concentrated in the Consumer Discretionary sector , accounting for 64.6 percent of the employees in that sector , followed by the Financial sector at 32 percent and the Industrial sector at 30.7 percent . The study finds that family businesses in Singapore command a prominent role in the domestic economy and capital market . Family businesses account for 63 percent of listed companies in Singapore . As of end-2010 , their total market capitalization accounted for 54 percent of the market total and 140 percent of nominal GDP , the second highest of the 10 Asian countries after Hong Kong . Family businesses account for 61 percent of total corporate hirings , which are most prevalent in the industrial sector . Historically , non-family businesses have been a larger contributor of total fixed asset investments in Singapore . However in 2009 , investment outlays by family businesses surged to 74 percent of the total , primarily due to investments in the two integrated resorts . The analysis shows that funding behavior of family businesses and non-family businesses differs quite significantly . Across Asia , family businesses are generally less able , or willing , to issue bonds than non-family businesses , relying more on bank lending to finance their business activities . In South Asia , the share of family businesses bond issuances has been rising significantly from 19 percent of total corporate issuances in 2006 to 40 percent in 2011 , while family businesses in North Asia have stagnated at a share of 20 percent due to abundant liquidity at the North Asian family businesses ' disposal . In terms of credit ratings , family businesses and non-family businesses have the same median corporate rating of BBB in South Asia . However , in North Asia , the disparity between the credit ratings of family businesses and non-family businesses is much greater . Some family businesses in North Asia have received high-single A ratings and the median corporate rating of family businesses in North Asia is BBB- while non-family businesses enjoy a median corporate rating of A- . Asian family businesses share common characteristics with their western peers , as they typically act as committed stakeholders with long-term investment horizons , rather than focusing short term on boosting current earnings , well exemplified by their frequent share buyback activities during the market downturn . The long-term commitment of the family business owners also translates into well-considered business strategy and investment decisions that focus on the firm 's long-term financial management and well-being , rather than the short-term share price performance . Family ownership provides firms with the crucial stability and continuity in business ownership and management structure to implement long-term investment strategies that maximize long-term firm value , placing far less emphasis on short-term results . Too short-term a focus can discourage strategic investment in brand building , research and development , human capital development and other vital intangible investments . Despite two severe bear markets amid the internet bubble crisis in 2002-2003 and the global financial crisis in 2008-2009 , the study finds that total return of Asian family businesses was a cumulative 261 percent during 2000-2010 at a compound annual growth rate of 13.7 percent . Family businesses outperformed against their local benchmarks in seven out of the 10 Asian markets , among which family businesses in China , Malaysia , Singapore and South Korea achieved the strongest relative outperformance against their local benchmarks in terms of compound annual growth rate in total return between 2000 and 2010 . This is mainly driven by their above market average earnings growth and profitability , as measured by earnings per share growth for example , one of several indicators of family businesses ' capability to create shareholder value and the main drivers of firm valuation . Throughout the last decade , Asian family businesses also delivered a higher average dividend yield spread of 22 basis points over the market average over the past decade , except in 2002 during the internet bubble crisis .